---
title: about
type: topic
tags: [trading, imported_note]
source_count: 1
created: 2026-05-12
updated: 2026-05-12
---

# about

Most traders believe liquidity exists just above highs and below lows. But that's just the tip of the iceberg. Liquidity exists far beyond what price alone can show you. And if you cannot see it, you're not really trading the market. You are the liquidity that the smart money uses to profit. In this video, you learn how to identify the different types of liquidity in the market, including the ones that are completely invisible on the price chart. So instead of just reacting to price, you start understanding what's actually driving it and where it's going. Liquidity is not random. It exists because buyers and sellers agree on price but disagree on what happens next. So every buyer needs a seller and every seller needs a buyer. That interaction is expressed through different types of orders. There are only three types of orders in the market and their interaction is what creates every move you see on the chart. So before we dive into liquidity, you need to understand the only three forces behind it. Market orders, limit orders, and stop orders. A market order is an order to trade immediately at the best available price. A limit order is in order to trade at a better price relative to the current price. For a buyer, a better price is below the current price. And for a seller, a better price is above the current price. A stop order is an order to trade at a worse price relative to the current price. For a buyer, a worse price is above the current price. And for a seller, a worse price is below the current price. For example, let's say you are in a long trade with a stop and take profit target. The stop loss in a long trade is a sell stop order which is in order to get out of the market at a worse price. The takerit in a long trade is a sell limit order which is in order to get out of the trade at a better price. In a short trade we have the opposite scenario following the same mechanics. The stop-loss is a buy stop order and the takerit is a buy limit order. The stop-loss is the price level where the trade idea is invalidated. The take-profit is the price level where the reward justifies the risk taken in the trade. Later, we'll examine the full taxonomy of orders more carefully. Given that buyers want to buy low and sellers want to sell high, that trades require both sides, and that there are different types of orders, we can now move on to the order book where this interaction becomes real. To understand the order book, we need five fundamental rules. Number one, a market order must always match a limit order. Number two, limit orders provide liquidity. Market orders consume liquidity. Number three, market orders initiate price movements. Limit orders absorb it. Number four, price moves when market orders overwhelm limit orders. Number five, price stalls when limit orders overwhelm market orders. The order book is basically a real-time map of liquidity. There are three columns. The middle one shows the various price levels. On the left, we have the bid column which shows the available liquidity provided by buyers in the form of limit orders below price. On the right, we have the ask column which shows the available liquidity provided by sellers in the form of limited orders above price. At each price level, we can see the number of contracts or shares available. That is how much liquidity exists at that level. Another important detail about the order book is that there are actually two prices at all times, the bid and the ask. The bid is the highest price buyers are willing to trade, and the ask is the lowest price sellers are willing to trade. Because buyers and sellers have opposing interests, these two prices don't match. So there is a gap between them called the bid ask spread. If you are a buyer who wants to trade right now, the only possibility is to accept the lowest ask price provided by sellers. This is called lifting the ask. If you are a seller who wants to trade right now, the only possibility is to accept the highest bid provided by buyers. This is called hitting the bid. Now imagine you are a large buyer and want to place a market order for 200 contracts. This order must match with sell limit orders in the ask column. At the current ask price, there are 120 contracts available. This is the liquidity at that level. Since the market order exceeds the available liquidity by 80 contracts, all 120 contracts at that price will be consumed. The remaining 80 contracts must then be filled at the next available price level, causing the ask price to move higher. This is essentially how price rises. When price falls, we have the same mechanics on the opposite direction when sellers hit the bid. In other words, when market orders overwhelm limit orders, price moves. If liquidity in the current ask was higher than 200, price would not move. So, price stalls when limit orders overwhelm market orders. The order book's capacity to absorb market orders without price moving is called market depth. This leads directly to the institutional definition of liquidity. Liquidity is the ease with which a market can be traded without causing significant changes in price. In other words, the greater the depth of the market at a price level, the more trading volume can occur there without price moving and therefore the higher the liquidity. The opposite is also true, of course. The lower the depth, less volume can cause higher volatility, therefore creating a low liquidity environment. Here's another detail about liquidity that is greatly misunderstood nowadays. Buyers and sellers left in isolation create a bid spread that is too wide. The reason is that buyers and sellers anticipate each other's behavior and crossing the spread requires one side to accept the price offered by the other side which goes against their fundamental interests. This is where market makers enter the stage. A market maker is a liquidity provider that continuously places limit orders inside the spread on both sides of the market. They compete to offer a slightly higher bid and a slightly lower ask, narrowing the spread. By doing so, they encourage more sellers to hit the bid and more buyers to lift the ask, facilitating trading and creating a more liquid and stable market. Market makers generate profit by capturing the bid ask spread, buying at the bid and selling at the ask. The term market maker is often used in technical analysis to describe a large trader who is always one step ahead of the market and can write large trends. However, this is different from the microructure definition of a market maker which refers to a liquidity provider with subtle orderflow influence. Market makers as liquidity providers can influence price dynamics in more subtle ways by adjusting their bid and ask quotes asymmetrically. They can create a slight directional bias in order flow. This practice is known as quote skewing. For example, suppose market makers shift the whole bid ask structure downward like so. This creates an asymmetry in the order book because now the ask is lower which attracts more buyers and the bid is also lower which repels sellers. This is a subtle way that market makers can influence liquidity provision in a manner that tilts price action. However, the goal of a liquidity provider with quote skewing is not to manipulate retail traders, is to balance their inventory more efficiently. What often looks like manipulation is in many cases just liquidity providers adjusting their quotes to attract the flow they need to manage risk and keep the market functioning. Going back to the core dynamics of the order book, market orders initiate price movement by consuming the liquidity provided by limit orders. For this reason, market orders are called aggressive while limit orders are called passive. Notice that we haven't talked about stop orders yet, and for good reason. Market and limit orders exist inside the market, actively participating in the order book. Stop orders, on the other hand, exist outside the market until they are triggered. Once triggered, they immediately become market orders. In other words, when you place a stop order, it does not enter the order flow unless it's triggered. In futures markets, stop orders are held at the exchange level until triggered, while in forex, they are held by brokers. So, a stop order is nothing more than a potential market order. Before being triggered, stop orders are invisible in the order flow. However, we can often infer their location since traders tend to place them in predictable areas of the chart. This is a good point to review the full taxonomy of orders which will open the gate to all liquidity based trading techniques later on. The taxonomy of orders has three different dimensions. Function, visibility, and behavior. At the intersection of these three dimensions, we have the heartbeat of order flow. The first dimension is the function of an order. A market order works as liquidity consumption and a limit order works as liquidity provision. These are the two fundamental forces in order flow. A stop order works as potential liquidity consumption since stop orders are nothing more than market orders waiting to be triggered. You can think of market orders as the gas paddle and limit orders as the break paddle. Stop orders are a bit like the nitro button. They generate a burst of aggression when triggered. When a strong wave of market orders hits the order flow, it aggressively consumes the resting liquidity provided by limited orders. But at the same time, that surge can encourage the opposite side to respond more heavily with passive orders, absorbing the pressure without allowing price to move much. In that sense, aggressive order flow does not just remove liquidity. It can also stimulate the provision of new liquidity by the other side. The second dimension is the visibility of different order types. Market orders are invisible until execution, at which point they immediately become part of the market's transaction history. In other words, market orders can only be observed retrospectively through historical data, such as the footprint. The order book shows the sell limit orders in the ask and buy limit orders in the bid. In other words, the real-time liquidity of each price level. The footprint shows the buying aggression that occurred in the ask and the selling aggression that occurred in the bid. Limit orders are the only order type visible in real time. They appear in the order book and provide insight into available liquidity. However, because they can be modified or cancelled at any time before execution, their presence does not guarantee intent. As a result, despite being visible, they have the potential to be deceptive. We'll talk more about that in a moment when we analyze the trading behavior that is implicit in each order type. Stop orders are invisible before execution because they exist outside the market. Once triggered, they immediately convert into market orders, which are themselves invisible until execution. As a result, stop orders are only observable after the fact once they appear in the market's transaction history. Despite being invisible, we know where stop orders are located because traders place them in predictable locations. There is a paradox in order flow. The only order type visible in real time, the limit order is also the most susceptible to manipulation. In contrast, stop orders, which are invisible, exhibit the most predictable behavior as traders tend to place them as structurally obvious locations on the price chart. The third dimension is the trader's behavior implicit in each order type. A market order implies urgency. The trader prioritizes execution over price. A limit order implies intent without commitment. It expresses a willingness to trade but can be modified or cancelled at any time before execution. In other words, the trader prioritizes price over execution. The stop order implies conditional urgency. It reflects a willingness to act aggressively, but only if a specific price level is reached. In other words, it defines a future condition under which execution becomes more important than price. There are many different types of manipulations that can occur with different kinds of orders, but they mostly occur with limit orders. These manipulations can be legal, illegal, or dwell in a gray area. The mechanics behind each one is a subject for another video. Later, we'll see how specific order flow tools can filter out a lot of this manipulation. Now you know everything you need to know about how different kinds of orders interact in the market. This gives you the necessary foundation to understand all liquidity concepts that can be exploited for profit. Let's now dive into the fun part which are the different kinds of liquidity concepts you can exploit. We can divide them in two major categories. Price action liquidity concepts and orderflow liquidity concepts. Price action liquidity concepts detect pools and voids by inferring liquidity from obvious price structures, highs, lows, fair value gaps, and standard gaps. Orderflow liquidity concepts go deeper. Rather than inferring liquidity from price structure, they reveal it directly, observing passive and aggressive orders across their full life cycle. If you think price action shows you smart money, wait until you see what order flow reveals. Let's begin by learning all the price action based liquidity concepts, which is what retail traders mostly use, and then we'll move on to the heavy duty weapons of order flow used by institutional traders. Before we explore the various price action liquidity concepts, we need a few basic ideas. They are the swing point, range, pullback, liquidity pool, and liquidity void. A swing high is a candle that has a lower high to the left and to the right. A swing low is a candle that has a higher low to the left and to the right. Range is the vertical distance from a swing low to a swing high or vice versa. Pullback is simply the price action that returns inside the previous range. Liquidity pool is a price region where liquidity is high, therefore making it difficult for price to move through. Liquidity void is a price region where liquidity is low, therefore making it easy for price to move through. Given these basic requirements, we can finally move on to the liquidity concepts that are purely based on price action. The first concept is of the buy side and sellside liquidity. Buyside liquidity refers to the cluster of buy stop orders that usually exists above a swing high. These are the stop-loss orders from short trades and the buy stop orders from long breakout traders. Sellside liquidity refers to the cluster of sell stop orders that usually exists below a swing low. These are the stop-loss orders from long trades and the sell stop orders from short breakout traders. Buy side and sellside liquidity represent liquidity pools because there is a cluster of stop orders that allow a greater degree of absorption from the other side of the trades. A liquidity sweep is basically the deceptive triggering of a liquidity pool. For example, a buyside liquidity sweep occurs when price breaks a previous swing high and closes above it. This triggers the stop-loss from short traders and the entry of long breakout traders. Sellers are already frustrated and buyers are about to get hurt. The triggering of the liquidity pool allows the smart money to execute large limit orders on the other side of these retail traders to observe the move. Right after this, price rejects the breakoff structure, therefore trapping the long breakout traders as well. Notice what happens here. A pool of stop orders allow the smart money to position itself one step ahead of the market. The sellside liquidity sweep follows the same logic but on the opposite side. Of course, the liquidity grab has the same mechanics of the sweep. The difference is in the speed of how it happens. A liquidity grab is a quick probe into the liquidity level with immediate rejection. While a sweep is a deeper move through liquidity that initially looks like a breakout, but ultimately fails. A liquidity grab is faster and a more obvious manipulation move. A liquidity run happens when price takes liquidity and continues moving in that direction showing acceptance and continuation rather than rejection. It is basically a true breakout. A liquidity run occurs when the smart money cannot or doesn't want to absorb the surge of market orders at liquidity pools. Breakout traders are led to believe they have an edge. So the liquidity run is its own form of deception. External liquidity refers to the liquidity resting outside the current range determined by a major swing high and major swing low. Internal liquidity refers to liquidity within the range such as minor pullbacks and minor swing points. Liquidity inducement is a deliberate move against the current trend that sweeps or grabs liquidity to trigger participation in the wrong direction, providing the fuel needed for price to continue in the original trend. Liquidity inducement can involve one or multiple liquidity levels from the range and the pullback. Low resistance liquidity is basically a failure swing. When price attempts to make a higher swing high and fails, a failure swing forms, which is translated into low resistance buyside liquidity. When price attempts to make a lower swing low and fails, a failure swing forms which is translated into low resistance sellside liquidity. High resistance liquidity is basically a non-failure swing. A higher high followed by a lower low forms high resistance buyside liquidity. A lower low followed by higher high forms high resistance sellside liquidity. The assumption in the modern smart money method is that once high resistance liquidity is formed, it tends to go to low resistance liquidity. For example, imagine this piece of price action. We have the formation of low resistance sellside liquidity judging by the failure swings at the bottom. At the top, we see price forming a non-failure swing and therefore high resistance liquidity. The idea is that the low resistance liquidity at the bottom serves as a target. Equal highs and equal lows are price levels where multiple swing points form creating a deeper liquidity pool. In other words, swing points correlating roughly in the same price level generate more powerful surges of aggression when they are triggered because the liquidity associated with each level forms one deeper liquidity pool rather than separate pools. This happens for a behavioral reason, not a mechanical one. There's a lot to be said about the self-fulfilling prophecy effect when it comes to technical analysis. Swing points are the most basic form of liquidity, but price action based liquidity doesn't stop there. Any tool that produces predictable behavior creates additional liquidity that can be exploited. Things that are common among retail traders like trend lines, chart patterns, moving averages, or bowlinger bands are good examples. For instance, as a trend line works, traders start to trust it. Trading at the trend line and placing stops just below it. This creates a predictable pool of stop orders, very much like what happens in swing points. This liquidity pool can be triggered and used as a continuation, but it doesn't necessarily involve the triggering of more obvious liquidity pools at swing points. It's a deceptive move because the trend line trader assumes the breakout will lead to a reversal. These are the liquidity pool concepts in the price-based smart money framework. Now we move on to the liquidity void concept. Liquidity voids are areas where liquidity is low. So price moves quickly through it. Pricebased smart money traders usually call this quick move displacement. There are basically two types of displacement. the implicit and the explicit. The former appears as a fair value gap and the latter appears as a standard gap. An explicit liquidity void occurs when price action leaves a gap between two adjacent candles. This is the strongest form of liquidity void because price displaces by leaping over a range of price. It's a form of discontinuous displacement. Price tends to revisit these areas to fill the gap. This creates a relatively predictable price behavior at these levels. The implicit liquidity void is more subtle and is represented by the fair value gap. Even though this is a misleading name, the fair value gap occurs when there is a gap between the high of the first candle and the low of the third candle or the low of the first candle and the high of the third candle. It's more subtle than the explicit liquidity void because price doesn't leap. It just quickly runs through a range of price. It's a form of continuous displacement. Sometimes you'll see price reversing after coming back to a fair value gap in the same way that it does when it comes back to a standard gap. If you want to get a more sophisticated view of price action that goes way beyond what we're talking about here, I recommend you check out my premium course called Fractal Trading, Mastering Price Action and Beyond. I'll leave the link to the official video released below. Now we move on to the orderflow tools that allow us to see important liquidity levels behind price action. If you don't understand orderflow yet, I have a free course in the channel where you can learn the basics. In this course, we're going to talk about two classes of liquidity tools in the orderflow realm. The tools that show the history of liquidity consumption, which include the volume profile, footprint chart, and view app. and the tools that show the persistence of liquidity provision which include the liquidity heat map that has been gaining more popularity lately. Let's begin with the tools that show the history of liquidity consumption. Starting with the volume profile. The volume profile is a volume at price tool. It shows the accumulation of aggression across price levels in a userdefined period of time. If you don't know anything about this tool, please watch my free volume profile course here in the channel. Fundamentally, the volume profile shows areas of high volume and areas of low volume. These two elements correlate nicely with the concept of liquidity. We can define five liquidity elements in the profile. High volume areas in the profile represent pools of liquidity consumption. This is useful because price tends to be attracted to previous areas of high liquidity. Low volume areas in the profile represent voids of liquidity consumption. This is useful because price tends to be repelled from or zoomed through these low liquidity areas established in the recent past. The price level with the highest volume can be seen as the level of maximum liquidity consumption. A level where liquidity has the greatest density so to speak. It's used as a strong form of support and resistance. For this reason, in the same way, the lowest of the volume nodes represents the deepest void of liquidity consumption in the profile. The value area of the profile which represents 70% of the total volume following the empirical rule in Gaussian distributions represents a statistical liquidity pool region. Notice that there is a close relationship between liquidity and value in auction market theory. High liquidity facilitates trade, stabilizes price and reinforces value. Low liquidity reduces resistance, allows displacement and enables price discovery. Let's move on now to the second tool of historical liquidity consumption which is the footprint chart. The footprint shows the distribution of buying and selling aggression in each candle. The value area shows the statistical liquidity pool in each candle. But the footprint has one feature that the volume profile doesn't have. The asymmetric liquidity consumption shown by imbalances and stacked imbalances. These areas unveil price levels where one side of the market dominated the other, which indicates who dominated the order flow in specific areas of the candle. This shows you hidden support and resistance levels. The third and final tool of historical liquidity consumption is the VWAP. You can see the VWAP as a center of mass of liquidity consumption. In other words, it's the historical equilibrium of executed liquidity which influences but doesn't define current value. The VW upline is probably one of the best types of support and resistance because it concentrates positioning and incentives. So, it's where the most capital is forced to act. In this chart, we can see a good example of how the anchored VWAP works as a center of mass of liquidity. Anchoring the VWAP on a significant low creates a dynamic line of support that shows hidden levels in the price chart. If you want to learn more about these orderflow tools and how to integrate them to find high probability trades, please check out my premium orderflow course in the link below. Now, it's finally time to move to the liquidity heat, which is the orderflow tool that shows the persistence of liquidity provision. This is the main liquidity tool in the orderflow methodology. The liquidity heat displays the evolution of liquidity persistence at each price level over time. Remember that in order flow liquidity provision is represented by limit orders. Liquidity persistence is a function of market depth and time. So imagine for example that each price level is a bar here. The higher the liquidity persistence, the brighter the level becomes. Notice that liquidity persistence is not binary. There's a spectrum between the lowest and highest liquidity persistence levels. A useful way to understand the meaning of persistence is through an analogy. Imagine that each price level is a bucket being filled with water. Market depth is analogous to the intensity of water flowing into the bucket. Time is analogous to how long the tap stays open. Now think about this. A strong flow of water for a very brief moment does not fill the bucket. But a weaker flow of water sustained over a longer period of time can fill the bucket. The liquidity heat simply shows how much water accumulated in each bucket during a specific period of time. Water is analogous to liquidity. The bucket is analogous to the price level and the specific period of time is the duration of the candle. The measurement of persistence resets with each new candle. The heat map is a way to combat the eancence of real-time passive liquidity. By measuring the persistence of liquidity, we can filter a lot of the manipulations that occur with limit orders. The heat map does not show where liquidity appeared. It shows where liquidity remained long enough to matter. Here we have a piece of price action without the liquidity heat map. Once we add the heat map, it becomes immediately obvious that price action is just the tip of the iceberg. No pun intended. The question is of course how do we read and trade with the aid of the liquidity heat map. Price movement results from the interaction between aggression and absorption. There are mainly two scenarios. When absorption is greater than aggression, price action stalls or reverses. When aggression is greater than absorption, price continues. For example, imagine that price is approaching a high liquidity level shown by the heat map. If price hits the level and produces a reaction to the opposite direction, this is a sign that absorption is greater than aggression. This is one indication that price might stall or even reverse. But it's just one piece of evidence. It's not a certainty. However, if price zooms through a high liquidity level, this is an indication that aggression is greater than absorption, which itself is a sign that price will continue in its current direction. The key once again is remembering that market orders are the gas pedal and what in fact makes price move. Limit orders are the break paddle and what makes price movement easier or harder. Regardless of how price interacts with liquidity levels, you gain information about the balance between aggression and absorption, the underlying driver of price movement. In practice, however, these interactions don't always look the same. The way liquidity persistence is distributed in the heat map can take on different forms and these forms influence how price behaves when it interacts with them. Let's differentiate between them directly in the price chart. A liquidity well is a price level with persistently high liquidity over time. It appears as a horizontal line in the chart. It demonstrates that the market repeatedly encounters strong resistance or support at that level often leading to absorption or delayed continuation. In this chart, I mark the most prominent liquidity walls and in many instances, we can see price reversing after touching them. A stacked liquidity wall is a stronger form of liquidity wall because it has multiple levels where price can be absorbed, therefore increasing the chances of reversal. A candle shadow piercing through multiple walls and returning is a strong reversal signal. In the same way, price breaking multiple liquidity walls is a strong sign of continuation. In this chart, I highlighted a few times that price has interacted with stacked liquidity walls. Once again, we can see that the reversals were significant in the long stack liquidity walls in the middle of the chart. We see that aggression was stronger than absorption and price indeed continues going down afterwards. A liquidity cloud is the same principle of a stacked liquidity wall, but instead of clear lines over time, it is more of a diffused cloud of deeper liquidity levels. On the top of the chart, we have a pretty good example of this. Notice that this region is clearly marked by a diffuse cloud of higher liquidity which also resulted in a significant reversal. Liquidity withdrawal occurs when liquidity formation disappears. Therefore creating a path of least resistance for price to move. Here we have two examples where liquidity walls or stacked walls disappeared. Therefore making it easier for price to move through the level where the levels originally were. The liquidity flip is the liquidity version of support and resistance switch. When a liquidity wall is broken, the market remembers the level where aggression overwhelmed absorption. So price often reacts at that level again, even if there is no liquidity there anymore. It's the memory of where the aggression overwhelmed absorption that matters. As expected, great results emerge when we act in the intersection between price action and order flow. For example, here we have a liquidity grab in terms of price action. And at the same time, this liquidity grab is interacting with a liquidity wall and a stacked liquidity wall in the heat map. What follows is a very sharp reversal. Once again, we see the concept of integration in trading. That's it for this video. Hopefully, you now have a deeper understanding of what liquidity actually means and how it behaves in real markets. Most content out there only scratches the surface of this topic, but once you understand these underlying mechanics, you start to see the market very differently. In future videos, we'll talk about using liquidity in the context of discretionary trading and also liquidity trading models. If you're interested in taking your trading knowledge to the next level, please check out the premium courses and ebooks in my website fractalflowpro.com. You can also send a question to support@fractflowpro.com. If you found value in this video and wish to support the channel, please click the like button, subscribe to the channel, activate the notifications, and share the video with your trading community. Thank you very much for watching, and I hope to see you in the next videos. Take care.
