---
title: Analysis of 5 Simple Trades
type: topic
tags: [trading, imported_note]
source_count: 1
created: 2026-05-12
updated: 2026-05-12
---

# Analysis of 5 Simple Trades

Welcome back to another Barby by Bar. A lot of you have been asking for another one in the comments, so here we go. Today, we're focusing on five recent easy money trades with clear, repeatable triggers. And by trigger, I mean the exact price action at a key level that tells me to enter. So, no guessing, no anticipation. And at the end, we'll review two late afternoon momentum trades. again with clear triggers because a lot of traders always ask what do I trade in the afternoon? So, let's get into five very recent easy money trades. Okay, first up we're going to look at IRBT, Iroot. So, there was a catalyst for the robotics sector after Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnik mentions that he's been meeting with robotics CEOs and he may back an executive order next year that put the entire robotics sector into play. Before we get into this trade, I just want to mention a quick strategy. When you think an entire sector is going to be in play, when you think an entire sector is going to be in play because of a catalyst, a great little trick you could do is figure out, you know, the top 20 or so companies, the tickers that are in that sector, add them to a watch list, and sort that watch list by Arvall. That way you could figure out which one of those stocks is most in play doing the most volume. And IRBT was that ticker. You could see on day one of the catalyst, it traded close to 300 million shares. But we're not going to talk about the day one trade. We're going to talk about this day three breakout that took place on December 5th. Those of you who have been watching me, those of you who have been tuning in to the inside access meetings, you know that I'm a big fan of the day three breakout, sometimes called the liquidity trap setup. And this is a trade that you could prepare for well in advance. It's been a while since the day three has been working consistently, but this one was set up extremely well given the catalyst, given the volume on day one, and given the low volume on day two. That tight inside day on very low volume that does not let out any shorts. Now, the trigger for this trade is very simple, and that's why I love it. It is the break of the day two high. So, let's go ahead and mark off that day two high. 325. Day two high. We'll label that. And we'll go ahead and we'll mark off the day one high as well. Knowing that this setup has been a great setup for a good portion of the year. And seeing how well this was set up for the day three, I was planning for this trade well in advance. Early in the morning, I'm at my trade station getting ready and I see IRBT, some volume coming in early in the morning and it breaks that day two high. That is the trigger for the trade. You get long the break of the day two high and you set your stop where that volume started to come in a little bit. And even if you were late, you know that day two high break is the trigger. So, when you see it consolidating over VWAP and you see it push back up over that day 2 high, I mean, you could even enter there at 8 a.m. I know many retail traders can place trades before 8. So, you could also get in when it breaks that day two high at 8 a.m., even a little bit after, as long as you are willing to accept the risk to below where that volume started coming in, which is around $3. So very tight risk there. You're risking 30 cents and ideally you want to see momentum above the day one high 8 a.m. we're putting in a higher high. And what's great about this and what I love about this is into the open. It's consolidating above the day one high. And really what I'm looking for to take profits in this trade. Um I've back test back tested this setup. I've studied this setup and you know the the true exit exit strategy for the liquidity trap is selling and partially out of your position into momentum off the open. We pull back into that day one high, that pre-market support area. We reclaim VWAP. We break above that morning 9:30 high and we break above the pre-market high on volume. I mean, this is just picture perfect. And as we start to push into $4, I start piecing out of my long position slowly about 5% at a time, we start to trend higher, start to piece out of that momentum position again, and we get this momentum push towards $5. My profit target for this trade was $5 and we were there very quickly. And you can see on the twominut we get a little bit of a blowoff on high volume into $5 and we reverse prior two-minute bar low gets taken out and that's the trade. That's the trade with a very simple trigger, very simple stop. What's interesting about the day three is the win rate on it is going to be a little bit low, but more often than not the riskreward when it works is at least a 5 to one. You know, you'll lose on this trade pretty often, but it just takes one to make up for about, you know, five that don't work out. I love this trade. Given how clean iroot was trading, I was looking to position into a swing trade on a pullback and looking for a second leg higher. What's also interesting about iRoot is that short interest was almost 50%. Meaning that almost half of the tradable float was short. So that tells me this could really squeeze. And although it did already squeeze, I think that the squeeze could continue given the catalyst in the robotic sector. So I was looking to position into a swing if we got a pullback in the stock. And I love to use simple moving averages on the daily chart. So you can see after that day three breakout, the stock had pulled back and I'm looking for a higher low. I'm looking for a tradable higher low. And I notice that on the ETH, I robot pulled back into the 50 simple moving average, which is this blue line. And the following day, the day of the trade, we continue to hold that 50 SMA. and we'll review the trigger for this swing trade. This is the second day that we're holding the 50 simple moving average. And I'm watching this very closely in the morning. I'm saying, okay, we're holding near the prior days low, which is also the 50 simple moving average right down near $3. And then suddenly at 952, this volume comes in here. we get this massive volume bar seemingly out of nowhere off of the 50 SMA. We've been holding the 50 SMA, you know, the prior day and now we're launching off of that level on high volume and we're taking out the intraday high. So essentially, I'm noticing a higher time frame swing setting up, and I'm using this extremely high volume opening range break to position myself in to this swing, risking low of day. Now, this was a trade to hold for me. So, I did end up holding it throughout the day. And the next day, which was December 10th, we gap up in the morning and we have an opening drive over the pre-market high and that volume is coming in, that momentum is coming in and I'm starting to slowly scale out of my position and I'm holding a core towards the end of the day in the after hours. We push up to 580 and I'm continuing to hold this position. In the morning on day three, we push up into $6 and we start to slow down. The stock is struggling to push above the prior days high. Push above that prior after hours high and it starts to reverse and I'm out of that trade. That's almost a 100% gain from our entry. The key here is to realize that I had a higher time frame. idea and I'm executing that idea on this opening range break trigger where that high volume comes in and the stop is simply a few cents below low of day. Next, we're going to take a look at PL from December 11th. Now, this was an earnings day one catalyst. So, PL, this is a company that is a satellite company. They take pictures of the earth details of the earnings revenue accelerated. They had a strong backlog and it was the first time that they were profitable. When I look at this chart in the morning, I notice that it is gapping up into all-time highs, key resistance being $16. So, what I love to see when a stock reports earnings after hours is it's able to hold that move. And you can see it holds that move overnight into pre-market. What I also like to see is that stock creeping up towards that after hours high, creeping up into the open. That is a really strong signal to me that this is going to go higher. And of course, it's sitting right under that higher time frame resistance level at 16. In the morning, we get a push above 16, a push above the pre-market high, a push above that after hours high. I'm sure a lot of longs were excited about this and started chasing that pre-market high break, and it fails. but it fails to push lower and we get this VWAP reclaim push back towards the morning high and we get our classic SMB hitchhiker setup. We get that first pullback to the 9 EMA on the 2-minut also pull back to 16. So, we have some confluence there with the hitchhiker. Confluence with that 16 higher time frame level and the 9 EMA and that is where I'm buying the stock willing to risk low of day. Now, if it starts to fail below 16, starts to hold below VWAP, I could start to cut some of my position before it gets to low a day. But I want to make sure that I'm accepting the risk on this trade to where I'm completely wrong. As it holds 16, my confidence is building on this trade and we get an opening range break to the upside, which is an excellent ad. And at this point, this is an excellent trigger. So, we're getting the trigger on the hitchhiker pull back to the 9 EMA prior higher time frame resistance becoming support acts as support for about 20 minutes. And then we get the opening range break trigger. Extremely clean opening range break. And I'm adding to my position. And now the stop for this just goes just under this consolidation low, just below this higher time frame resistance that's now acting as support. I treated this one as a simple scalp. So as it started to push up, 1750 started acting as resistance. We get this pullback into the 9 EMA. I really want to see a momentum push higher here. So when it starts to struggle here at 1750, I'm just starting to take profits. We get a first close below the 9 EMA. I'm exiting the position. Just a very simple, easy money trade with a clear trigger. And just notice so far that we are taking these trades in stocks in play that have an individual catalyst. They're not dependent on the overall market. They all have a unique catalyst and that theme will continue with our next trade in MSOs. Okay, let's take a look at MSOs from December 12th. After hours on December 11th, there was a Washington Post article stating that Trump is expected to push the government to dramatically loosen federal restrictions on marijuana. right away. I think MSOS, which is a marijuana ETF just for American marijuana companies. So, heading into the open, I just notice, okay, there's this resistance from the after hours overnight pre-market at about 15:30. Arvall is extremely high on this, even though that it's not really trading too clean in the morning. So, this is going to be one of our afternoon setups with a clear trigger around 10:50 in the morning. You see this volume push above VWAP and back towards this 1530 resistance area. So, we get a push to new highs into this 1530 area and a failure. So, anyone that's chasing this breakout, they get washed out below VWAP. But the important thing here is and again I just want to highlight this 1530ish area. We end up with a higher low here and we reclaim VWAP and then we push back into that 1530 area again waiting to see if any volume comes in. No volume is coming in and we fail back to VWAP. But what's interesting at this point is heading into 1 2:00 we're able to hold back above VWAP here. So this is the fifth or sixth time that we're revisiting this $530 level. What's different about it now is we have a double bottom here in the morning. We have a failure from that resistance and a higher low. So buyers are stepping up. We have another push until 5:30. ends up being a failure, but we have another higher low. So, buyers are quietly stepping up and then we get the afternoon break of $5.30 and that is the trigger, this break here. And the confirmation is the stock is finally able to hold above that $5.30 level. From there, there were definitely a few different ways that you could manage this. Um, a great way, you know, in the afternoon, stocks are typically not going to have as much momentum as they do in the morning. So, in the afternoon for a breakout like this, I actually prefer to trail using prior fiveminute bar lows. And if I could identify that the stock is holding the nine or the 21 well on the two-minut, I'll also use that. So let's take a look at how well that five minute bar trailing stop works here. So now we're looking at a fivem minute. We get the breakout of 530 and from there prior fivem minute bar low is not taken out until $5.74 and that is one of the exit triggers. Another exit trigger is a close below the 9 EMA on the 2-minut which does not happen until it tops here. We get that first close below the 9 EMA after it fails from $6, that whole number. Another excellent exit trigger there. Okay. And for our final trade, we will review Tesla from December 16th. Since this wedge breakout back in September, Tesla's been consolidating between 400 and 460 with some clear resistance here at 460. We get a day where Tesla gaps up over 460 and it's just sitting near the top end of this range. The next day, the day of our afternoon trade with a clear trigger, it's hanging out inside the previous day's range up until the afternoon. So, let's zoom in and we'll just start off by looking at a fiveminute chart. Here's the day that it gaps over that $460, $460 level and it's consolidating most of the day. Clear resistance. It doesn't need to be perfect. Resistance area right at 480. That whole number there. We'll also label 482. We have a handful of failures from 480. It tries to push above for a few minutes on day one. tries to push above in the afternoon and fails in the morning on day two. Fails that level again in the afternoon fails that level again. But what I am noticing here similar to that MSOS trade, that afternoon breakout that we just reviewed is buyers are stepping up. Buyers are stepping up. Buyers are stepping up. So we have a low fails from 480. We have a higher low fails from 480. We have a higher low that is now holding VWAP. And I'm saying to myself, all right, we're headed into power hour where some traders consider the last hour of the day. Some traders consider that the last hour and a half of the day. And I know that volume typically comes back in that last hour and a half hour. And I'm also saying to myself here on the higher time frame, we've now been consolidating for two days. Tesla has held gains since this gap up and into the afternoon. Now, we'll zoom in on the two-minut. We get a breakout through 482, through the intraday high, and through the prior days high, and volume starts to come back in. We have the highest volume bar since 10:00 a.m. And that is the trigger, the breakout of 482. Very similar to MSOS, that afternoon breakout, I want to implement a fiveinut bar trailing stops me out of a piece of the position just under 486. And then we end up closing the day on highs. Just an excellent afternoon breakout trade with a clear resistance level after a series of higher lows. Very simple trigger. Very clear riskreward. We're just risking a few cents below this high volume breakout bar. The highest volume of the day since 10:00 a.m. on that breakout. Thank you for tuning in. Hope you learned something about easy money trades with clear triggers. So, you're an active trader, not doing as well as you want, not doing as well as you deserve, and you just can't figure out why you can't become profitable no matter how hard you try. Well, let me show you why. This is your competition. The traders in this room, this room right here is full of elite traders, some of whom are making seven and even eight figures a year. In fact, our top guys have made nearly 20 million each in net trading profits in a single year. Let's head to my office so I can share more. So, you're probably used to seeing videos of lavish trader lifestyles, trading gurus trading off of a laptop for an hour a day, heck, maybe even 15 minutes a day, and then them relaxing on some secluded beach for the rest of the day. Well, all I can tell you is that our traders train like proathletes. They live and breathe the markets and are continually working on their trading skills. Because at our firm, that's what we found it really takes to make it in this game. I'm Mike Bellofury, co-founder and managing partner of SMB Capital, one of the world's top proprietary trading firms located in Midtown Manhattan. And we're always looking for trading talent to hire and develop. And not just to trade in-house on our desk, but also to trade from their own home, entirely using our firm's capital. And we have numerous traders doing just that, allowing them to make upwards of seven figures trading the firm's capital without risking their own money. But to even get a shot at something like that, you need to have the right training. That's why we're doing a new free online presentation in which we share how you can get an interview with SMB to become an in-house or remote trader. Trading firm capital without risking yours and gaining access to all of our firm's coaching and resources. And the best part, you don't have to be a profitable trader yet. In fact, we prefer to mold profitable traders with our methods and our techniques. That's why we have just three simple criteria that can earn anyone an interview. We're looking for highly ambitious and determined traders who fit our culture first and foremost. So, if you believe that could be you, sign up for the free 1-hour online presentation by clicking the link that's in your top right corner of your screen now.
