---
title: Breakdown of High-Probability Entries and Exits
type: topic
tags: [trading, imported_note]
source_count: 1
created: 2026-05-12
updated: 2026-05-12
---

# Breakdown of High-Probability Entries and Exits

Welcome back to another bar by bar. It's April 29th and we've seen some explosive moves over the last two weeks. From headline driven squeezes to sharp mean reversions, this bar by bar is all about news trades, reversion trades, and combinations of the two. These are the types of trades that punish hesitation, reward quick thinking, and sharp tape reading. Let's break down five examples one bar at a time. All right, so the first trade that we're going to review is a breakdown in cues. Um, let's set the stage for this trade by looking at the bigger picture. First thing you notice, obviously, is we've been in this downtrend since all-time highs on February 19th. We popped into the 200 SMA. Interestingly enough, that aligns with the anchored VWAP from all-time highs. Uh, and we fail from there. And then we pop into the 20 SMA and fail and end up breaking the structure, putting in a low. Then we got the 90day tariff pause. We shot right up into the 20 SMA and since then we failed from the 20, failed from the 20. Zooming in will set the stage for this specific trade. Uh but the market is clearly weak after the 90-day pause. traded right into the 20 SMA. Then we failed from the 20 SMA, failed from the 20 SMA. Um, and on the 16th, we were gapping down in the morning. Let's zoom in on that. Tuesday after the close, the day before this trade, there was some negative headlines out about the US's strategy for negotiating with the China. And in the morning, we were walking into a gap down. Interestingly enough, early on in the morning, there was some headlines that China's government was reportedly open to trade talks with the US. Um, they wanted President Trump and his cabinet members to talk and they desired consistency and respect. So, you know, China's government saying that they're open to trade talks. and we see this push the 4:00 a.m. pre-market open and by 10:00 a.m. we fade that entire move after, you know, we we sort of had that negative headline on China talks on Tuesday after the close. We open up at 4:00 a.m. The market reacts to China willing to talk, willing to negotiate. we pop and then by 10 a.m. we fade that whole positive headline. So essentially we gap down on uncertainty. We rallied on some hopeful headlines. By by 10:00 a.m. we're back at pre-market lows. The market can handle prosperity and because of that I came in with a bearish outlook and I was leaning more bearish on the day. Couple more things to note. We have this overnight low, pre-market low, right around 4:47. At 10:00 a.m., we hold that. So, we have a really nice support level to work with here. Also, really important going into the day, we knew that Powell was scheduled to speak about the economic outlook um at the Economic Club of Chicago. So, this was one of those events where we could be well prepared for in advance with the idea that, you know, we could see some chop into this, right? So, we hold the pre-market low, we're chopping up around VWAP, we try to push to new highs and fail, and then we're back below VWAP. And we know at 130, um, Powell is due to speak. And in general, when there's like a potential market moving event that we could be prepared for that we know about and it's in the middle of the day, I personally tend to be more handsoff into that event just thinking that big money and people that are really going to move the market, they might be waiting, you know, to hear the comments or or whatever it is before making any big decisions. And that's sort of what happened, right? We traded down into that overnight low um pre-market low and held it and then pushed off of it. And I'm just thinking, all right, this is probably going to be handsoff day. We couldn't break down um or a hands-off day at least until Powell speaks. Okay, so that sets the stage there. 130 starts to roll around. I have my trade the news squawk up. I'm also watching Powell on YouTube live. This actually set up a really really simple breakdown trade. We had this 447 pre-market low support. Now it's the opening range low, intraday low. Sitting there at my desk waiting to hear what Powell has to say. Also just thinking, you know, we held, we were able to reclaim VWAP and hold above VWAP. Tried to make new highs, failed. Now we're holding back below VWAP into Powell's comments and again we have that nice confluence at that 447 level from the overnight low, pre-market low and you know intraday opening range low. So I'm sitting there and I hear I hear Powell's comments. First I hear on the squawk pal say US economy remains solid despite heightened uncertainty and downside risks. Then I hear growth likely slowed in Q1 2025 compared to last year's pace. All right, you know, nothing too negative yet. And then it starts to get a little more bearish. He says the administration's policies are still evolving with highly uncertain effects. Okay, we know about that. And then he says larger thanex expected tariffs likely mean higher inflation and slower growth. And then he says, "Economic impact of tariffs is likely larger than initially expected." And the market really did not like that. And we just get this really clean breakdown through that 447 level. I am hitting the bits. I'm hitting the bits. Really clear breakdown through a very nice level. Let's zoom in. So, we see that high volume break through that 447. Um, and that ends up being the second highest volume bar of the day. Perfect, perfect confirmation on that high volume breakdown. And then we consolidate below that level and the 9 EMA acts as resistance and then we trade to new lows. Now, we're going to pull up the NASDAQ tick on the right hand side just to showcase how I use the tick for these trades, taking profits and getting into new trades and even flipping my position. So, I'm holding my position and we get our first negative,000 tick since the breakdown. I'm scaling out of a portion of my short position. We pop up into the 9 EMA and fail and we're trading lower into a negative 1,200 tick and I'm covering more of my position. And then we pop, start to break and hold over that 9 EMA, eventually fail, and I'm covering more of my position. Now we have a breakdown. We have one leg down, two legs down, and three legs down. And I'm covering into the deep negative 1,000 ticks. And once we start getting like negative,300ative,400 ticks after a move straight down, um I know that typically there's going to be some sort of bounce. Now given the higher time frame, what we discussed, we discussed the failure at the 20 SMA. We discussed the gap down on the negative news. We discussed how the market tried to rally on some positive comments out of China and failed. Um, I'm still leaning bearish into the close and I want to look for opportunities to read. So, I'm going to switch this from a one minute to a two minute. Um, typically when I'm trading momentum, I'm looking at a 1 2 5 minute chart. So, switch over to the two and we go from a negative almost 1,400 tick, which is really really extreme. Um, and then we revert back to 600 in the tick where we've sort of been struggling for all day. Never really got above a 600 tick. So, I want to look for opportunities to reshort as we start to get up into this 600 zone in the tick. So, I start to slowly scale into a short as we're getting into that 600 territory in the NASDAQ tick and we pop into the 21 EMA. And this is the first test of the 21 EMA since this breakdown. And if we're going to have a second leg lower, this is really the area we should fail from. You'll see like on the 5minute chart that aligns with the 9 EMA. So, you're getting the first pop of the 9 EMA on the fiveminute chart and on the two-minute chart that aligns with the 21 EMA. And I really like that. If I think that the stock is going to have a second leg lower, that's usually a good spot for me to add back to my position. And essentially, like where I'm risking this to, I'm trying going to be a little bit wide with it. And if we start to hold over and we start to break trend and hold over the 21 EMA, um, I know then that it is likely that we're going to get some sort of bigger bounce. When I think that there's going to be a second leg lower, that's usually a really great spot to add back or reposition or put on a position if I miss that first leg. So, you see, we're getting those 600 ticks into the 21 EMA. I'm adding back to my short. And you know, we could just draw like a little simple line here. We start to see a series of red candles. We start to curl lower, break that little trend line. Um, and again, I'm holding this until we start to get negative,000 ticks. And I begin to cover my position, covering my position slowly. Um, and by the time we get this next 1300 tick, I'm out of that short. And another reason why I'm taking covers more aggressively into this area on these thousand ticks and into this 440 is because we have a huge potential higher time frame support here. So let's take a look at that quickly. Just zooming out to a 30 minute chart. You can see we had that first fake out with that 90-day pause headline which was a fake out and we failed from 440. The next day we popped to 440 and failed. Then we got the real 90-day pause headline. We blew through that 440, traded below a little bit, reclaimed, and then ended up holding and holding. So, I just know that a ton a ton of volume has been done around this 440. And I want to be covering into that area and even start to look for a potential long, which comes as a tick divergence. a tick divergence where we have a low in the tick. So you can see that negative300 tick. I'm never just blindly buying into these. I need to wait for some sort of signal, some sort of turn. And then we get the tick divergence where the market is making a new low, but the tick is unable to make a new low. And we reclaim that low. So we have a failed follow-through new low. the tick. The market's making a new low, but the tick is unable to make a new low. So, we have a tick divergence, which sets up the entry as we reclaim that previous low. The stop is simply a few cents below low of day. And with these trades, I'm just looking for a scalp. We failed from the 21 EMA. So, as we pop into the 21 EMA, I'm just capturing a quick point on that and I'm covering my risk. You know, I'm fighting the trend based off of, okay, I have a divergence in the tick. We're getting extreme negative ticks and we're into higher time frame support. I have a failed follow-through new low. We're reclaiming that low. Um, and I'm taking the long just for a quick scalp. The imbalance, the market imbalance is at 350. The market imbalance is at 350 and I want to be out of most of it up until that because we don't know if it's going to be, you know, a few billion to sell and we're going to spike lower and that's just going to wipe out all my gains on that trade or it could be a spike higher which ended up happening. Um, but before that, you know, I'm out of most of that position and then when we get that spike, I'm just selling the rest. We have a really clear higher time frame breakdown setup, a catalyst that we could be ready and prepared for, ready to listen to what Pal has to say. Um, and then just a really solid showcase on how to use the tick when you're trading the market and the market is in play. Now, we're going to switch gears a little bit and we're going to look at Hertz, which occurred on the very same day. So definitely an interesting setup here. During pre-market on the day of the trade, news dropped that Perishing Square discloses a 12.7 million share stake. And that is Bill Aman's fund. Bill Aman's fund is taking a stake in Hertz. And that's where this spike comes from. Um, and we hold up into the open. Interestingly enough, Hertz holds below VWAP. There's really not much to do with it. Um, you know, we can note this $4 support area held held ends up failing from VWAP. You see volume come in midday and we tried to take out high of day and squeeze and we failed to do that. Failed to take out high of day and squeeze and then the stock ends up trading back below VWAP. What Hertz has essentially done all day is just continue trapping shorts. Continue to trap shorts. And Hertz has a short interest of 40%. 40% of the float is short, you know, which leads me to think that this could continue to squeeze. Arvall was elevated throughout the day. And you know, towards the end of the day, it's easy to see that Hertz is on track for one of its highest volume days in years. In addition, if we just look at the daily chart, you can see that it's breaking out of this range that it's been in. We have this consolidation that it's breaking out of. It's doing a good job holding up. Right before the market closes, 20 minutes before the market closes, CNBC rehashes this news. They report that Perishing Square stake totals 19.8% 8% and um they own the second largest holding in Hertz which brings in a whole trunch of new investors when they hear that on CNBC. We have a whole new wave of participation just on that CNBC headline and that triggers this huge volume that comes in and shorts are getting squeezed. we break through high of day. And when I hear that and I see this technical setup, I'm just getting long instantly knowing that big shorts, they only have 20 minutes to cover their position and they're going to start to get real nervous as they see this volume sustained and we break through high of day and we break through the pre-market high. They have limited time to cover and they just want to get out. And you see how well this move sustains into the close. Just making for an excellent, excellent breaking news trade with a very clear technical breakout. We break through the intraday high. We break through the pre-market high. We know there's only about 20 minutes left until the close. all these any big really big short they need time to get out of their position and they're going to be covering just to get out of it. I did sell this position on the close. So that was a mistake that I made in this trade because you could see that in the after hours it continued to just grind higher blowout shorts. Um, but really just excellent breaking news trade. And just a side note, every year, every year we get a few of these breaking news trades where some investor, high-profile investor has a stake in a company. You know, this was Bill Aman's hedge fund. I remember either last year, Bill Aman announced he was covering his short and bonds and TLT had a really nice trade off of that. I remember last year Carl Icon announced a stake in Caesars that ended up being a really great trade. So you know when these high-profile investors take stakes in companies they usually lead to really excellent trades and they happen a few times every year. Next up I want to get into this GLD mean reversion trade. As we know gold is a safe haven asset. people buy when they're nervous, whether that's about um trade wars, inflation, war, recession. Um and we have all of that going on right now, right? So, you see that gold has just been slowly grinding higher for quite a while now. Price action changes a bit, right? we just have this slow steady grind higher and then over the last 20 days or so price action changes. We start to get an acceleration and we're starting to see larger gaps just visually. We're in a slow grind and then we start to go parabolic. Start to get an explosive move higher which just look looks much differently than the price action that we've seen, you know, over the last eight months or so, year or so. Going into Monday, the 21st, we were gapping up, but I wasn't that interested in the short yet because we were coming out of an inside day. Uh, so we had a series of gaps. Gold held, gapped up again, held, and then put in an inside day. So price was able to digest was able to digest those gains. Um on that Friday the 17th we tried to take out Thursday's low and reclaimed. So essentially we have on Monday um a breakout from an inside day which I think just devalues the setup a little bit. So going into the day of the trade, which was Tuesday the 22nd, we get a really nice signal in the overnight session and um pre-market session, which I want to talk just a little bit about. So you can see these levels that I have marked here. We have this 314 which on Monday, you know, held once, twice, three times, four times. And then in the overnight session, gold climbs higher. gold climbs higher and by the open it faded that move and gold is trading back at its prior days close and this is often a really great signal when you're looking for mean reversion. You know, you get the overextension on the daily chart and then you see either after hours or the pre-market, it looks like it's going to continue to climb higher. It looks like it's going to gap up and then by the open all that overnight and pre-market action fades and we're opening up at, you know, the prior inside the prior days range or even near the prior days close or near the prior days low. And that historically over the last year to two years has been a great signal that it's time for the reversion setup when those overnight gains or pre-market gains can't sustain. Um, and we're pushing back pushing back down to previous days levels. So, just knowing that from studying these setups, I'm looking for the reversion trade. Off the open, we get an opening drive to the downside on high volume. So now I'm getting confirmation intraday that today is probably the day we break through the previous day's high. We break through the previous day's close and we trade into that 314. We trade into that 314 support from the prior day and we bounce off of there. Now, this trade did take me a couple of attempts, which is okay when you're game planning for that. Gold and commodities are typically very tricky traders, and more often than not, you're going to need to give them multiple attempts. So, I am planning for that. First attempt was the VWAP continuation. We get a pop into VWAP, pop into the previous day's high, and we turn. And I'm shorting that, and then I get stopped out. And now I know I need to be patient, and I need to wait to see what happens. Still watching it closely. I still love the setup. We try to, you see, I drew this little trend line here. Don't want to fight it as long as it's holding that trend line. We tried to hold back over yesterday's high. And then we fail and we start to break that trend line. Now I'm feeling better about the short and I start to short. We pop back into yesterday's high and I'm adding to my short. And then we start to roll over into that 314 area and I'm starting to cover the position just in case we don't break down. I'm covering the ad and I'm left with my core position which I started shorting in here. added on the failure of yesterday's high and I'm starting to just cover just a little bit into that 314. Pop back into VWAP and fail. I'm starting to add to the short again. We pop back into VWAP and then we get this hard failure on volume where the tape looked completely different and then there was a headline. Treasury Secretary Bent sees deescalation with China says the situation is unsustainable. We know that gold is a safe haven asset. People buy it when they're nervous. Markets rush into gold when they're scared. In clarity, when fear fades and there's some clarity and some confidence back in the market, investors will rotate out of safe haven assets such as gold and back into riskier assets like growth. So, we get the volume on that. And in my mind, I'm saying this trade is going to work now or never. This is the moment that I've been waiting for for this trade. We're either going to break 314 on these comments as some uncertainty from the market lifts or we're going to hold again. And I'm just completely wrong on this idea. And now it's time to go all in on the trade. I'm adding to my short and in addition to that I'm buying 314 puts that expire the next day. So gold has both Wednesday and Friday expirations. Wednesday expirations were introduced to give traders more control around macro events like CPI which is only on Wednesdays. So we have a Wednesday weekly expiry and then we have the traditional Friday expiry. And I'm just hammering into those 314 puts um versus just the high of this candle where the sense comments came out. So the onchange price from those comments, we hold that 314, but I'm being patient. I'm not going to get spooked out of this trade. I'm committed to it. We hold below the 9 EMA, which bolsters up some confidence for me, and we start to curl lower. And now I'm feeling really good about the trade. We break to new lows and break that 314 on volume. As those puts trade into 100% gain, I am selling half. And now I have a free trade on those puts that expire, you know, in about 26 hours or so. As we trade into one ATR from high of day, I'm starting to cover my equity portion of the trade. Then from there, these puts really take off as we trade below like 312 and 311. And now they're trading to like 225%. And I'm not going to be greedy. I'm going to be scaling out of those puts. And I'm just going to leave on 20% of the position for the next day. As we start to break trend and start to hold back over that 9 EMA, I'm covering the remainder of the shares. And I'm happy keeping on that 20% of the put options that expire the next day. And I did not do anything else with gold for the day. But I do just want to point out um this retest of 314 and failure. Um that is an excellent trade that I should have traded. I should have been in this when the trend broke. I should have put the stop a few cents above the high. Nevertheless, it did end up being a really solid trade. And at the end of the day, there were some additional comments um that pushed gold lower. Trump made comments that he has no intention of firing Powell and that tariffs on China would come down. So, more uncertainty lifted from the market. um as Trump confirms that he's not going to fire Powell and China tariffs will come down and that just makes for an excellent short and or you can also get long QQQ when you hear that or SPY or SPXL or TQ um however you want to espresso market trade. It's a really solid breaking news trade at the end of the day to add some nice P&L to your trading day. Finally, we are going to review a very clean, really picture perfect textbook trade, textbook mean reversion trade in Pony. On April 23rd, Pony dropped news. They unveiled a new autonomous driving system and robo taxi lineup at the Shanghai Auto Show. They're targeting mass production by mid 2025. that brought in volume and a break of its recent downtrend. The next day, Pony gapped up and closed on highs. Then the next day, another catalyst hit. They announced a strategic partnership with Tencent Cloud to advance autonomous driving and commercial deployment of their robo taxi. So now at this point in the morning of the 25th, we've seen a 4 ATR move in three days. And one way to define an overextension to the upside is when the stock presses that upper Ballinger band on the daily. So we have an overextension. But here's where it gets interesting. Just as we discussed with gold, we have the push in the after hours, the push higher in the overnight session, and by the time pre-market rolls around, we're fading that move. So, very similar to gold, even though this stock and gold have absolutely nothing to do with each other, we're seeing that signal play out where that after hours move and overnight move are unsustainable and we pull back by the time pre-market rolls around, signaling to us that the stock could be ready for a pullback or a mean reversion short. Then they drop that 10-centent announcement in the pre-market which pushes the stock back up towards that overnight high. And this setup, this is one of the easiest and best ways these mean reversions could set up. When off they open, they push into like that clear resistance level. So we have the overnight high and the pre-market high. You can see the volume that comes in as we test those levels. and the tape just pauses up here. This is where tape reading skills really come in handy. And if you're using Trader Sim, um, I would challenge you to go back and watch this tape up here. No momentum coming in through that overnight high and pre-market high. And as soon as I see this h stall and we fail from there, I'm getting short in the 960s, risking just a few cents above that high. So, an extremely clean, extremely nice riskreward trade there. As we pop and start to fail, which could be a lower high, I'm adding to my short on this pop. We break lows on volume and consolidate. And I'm adding to my short into this consolidation. We get the breakdown of that consolidation. We respect the 9 and 21 EMA. You can see that a little bit cleaner on the 2-minut. as we break down again. I am adding to my short again because this is a mean reversion short. It's a textbook short. Extremely nice higher time frame daily and it is working perfectly intraday. Everything that is supposed to happen is happening. We're failing from the pre-market high and overnight high. We're trying to pop back above VWAP and we can't and we roll over and break lows. We're consolidating below the opening range low following that final ad. We just want to stick with the trend. Um the setup is working absolutely perfectly. It's not doing anything wrong at all and it is trading super heavy and is trading super clean. Now I'm waiting for some levels to hit. Um we trade into $8 and we try to hold $8. So I'm going to cover just a small piece of the position. We fill the gap trade into the prior day's close and we try to hold the prior day's close and I'm covering that position. And then finally, we get the break in the trend, clear trend break, first close over the 9 EMA. I'm covering the remainder of my position. So, we have a really clean overextension to the upside on the daily chart. And essentially we have a sell the news event with that PR and we just have a really clean resistance level up near 10 at 980 the overnight high the pre-market high to work with. When we fail that level and no volume is coming in um we call that a failed follow-through new high. It's just a really really clean mean reversion short setup. All right, thank you for tuning into another Barby by Bar, everyone. I hope you learned something. So, you're an active trader, not doing as well as you want, not doing as well as you deserve, and you just can't figure out why you can't become profitable no matter how hard you try. Well, let me show you why. This is your competition. The traders in this room, this room right here is full of elite traders. Some of them are making seven and even eight figures a year. In fact, our top guys have made nearly 20 million each in net trading profits in a single year. Let's head to my office so I can share more. So, you're probably used to seeing videos of lavish trader lifestyles, trading gurus trading off of a laptop for an hour a day, heck, maybe even 15 minutes a day, and then them relaxing on some secluded beach for the rest of the day. Well, all I can tell you is that our traders train like pro aletes. They live and breathe the markets and are continually working on their trading skills because at our firm, that's what we found it really takes to make it in this game. I'm Mike Belluri, co-founder and managing partner of SMB Capital, one of the world's top proprietary trading firms located in Midtown Manhattan. And we're always looking for trading talent to hire and develop. And not just to trade in-house on our desk, but also to trade from their own home, entirely using our firm's capital. And we have numerous traders doing just that, allowing them to make upwards of seven figures trading the firm's capital without risking their own money. But to even get a shot at something like that, you need to have the right training. That's why we're doing a new free online presentation in which we share how you can get an interview with SMB to become an in-house or remote trader trading firm capital without risking yours and gaining access to all of our firm's coaching and resources. And the best part, you don't have to be a profitable trader yet. In fact, we prefer to mold profitable traders with our methods and our techniques. That's why we have just three simple criteria that can earn anyone an interview. We're looking for highly ambitious and determined traders who fit our culture first and foremost. So, if you believe that could be you, sign up for the free 1-hour online presentation by clicking the link that's in your top right corner of your screen now.
