---
title: High Odds Breakout Technique (Step-by-Step Instructions)
type: topic
tags: [trading, imported_note]
source_count: 1
created: 2026-05-12
updated: 2026-05-12
---

# High Odds Breakout Technique (Step-by-Step Instructions)

What if you could trade breakouts with the confidence of a professional, knowing exactly which ones to take? Most traders chase momentum. Elite traders identify probability. That's a huge difference. In this video, senior trader Justin Spiro will give you a stepby-step technique to do just that. I'm Mike Belluri, co-founder of SMB Capital, a top proprietary trading firm with offices in New York City and Miami. We've built numerous seven and even eight figure a year traders and we teach what actually works. If you're serious about trading, you found the right place to learn how to grow your trading account. Let's get started. Welcome back to another Barby by Bar. Today we're breaking down one of the most reliable and high probability breakout setups I've seen in the last 6 weeks. It's shown up over and over again. And when it works, it really works. We're going to walk through six real trades that follow the same simple blueprint. And by the end of this video, you'll know exactly how to spot it, trade it, and manage it with confidence. We're going to start off with NVTS on May 22nd. They announced a partnership with Nvidia to help power nextg AI data centers with their high efficiency power chips, which was seen as a positive because it validated their tech and connected them to the biggest name in AI. NVTS had about 25% of its 145 million share float shorted, which is definitely enough to spark short covering, add momentum once the Nvidia story broke and potentially offer followthrough. You can see the daily chart after that Nvidia headline had a big move, close strong, and then on day two put in that inside accumulation day. This is what most or all of these charts are going to look like. Now, let's get into intraday off the open. When the stock breaks over that accumulation day high, that is our entry. It's going to be the same for all of these. And what I like to do is either once price crosses that level, you take the trade and you risk to the low of that five minute bar that broke that day two inside accumulation day high. your stop is just a few cents below that five minute bar or the other option is a low of day stop and that's going to be the same for all of these. When these work best they break the accumulation day high on volume or spend time above it getting shorts nervous and buyers interested. The next step is for volume and momentum to come into the stock. Those of you who look at Arvall should see Arvall increasing after the consolidation above the day one high. We see a change in character and price expand to the upside. You can see that here. Little change in character. We're starting to see an increase in volume and momentum come into the stock. Naturally, I'm scaling out into that momentum. As that volume really increases into that whole $6 level, we start to see some blowoff volume there. And that's where I want to take a piece of my profits. And anytime we're talking about taking a piece off, it's either one/ird or one quarter of the position, depending on the scenario. Taking a look at a 2minut. I'm riding that momentum as long as it's holding above the 9 EMA on the twominut all the way up until we get our first close below on the 2minut. And that's where I'm going to take another piece of my profits off the table. The last portion of the trade gets cut on the first close below the 9 EMA on the five minute chart unless the stock is extended into some higher time frame resistance like we see here. So you can see we're pushing up into that 750 area on the weekly chart and just a very simple resistance area. So even if you didn't know about that higher time frame resistance and you should you should always be checking your daily and your weekly charts. um you could just follow that fiveinut close below the 9 EMA. When strong stocks with really high arvol trend, they'll tend to hold that 9 EMA on the 2minut. And for an even longer trade to hold, you get that first close below the 5m minute, which is a good signal that the trade is over. As a side note, it's never a bad idea to hold 10 or 20% of your position just to see what could happen. Since we're in from a great price, it's okay to let a piece ride as a swing if you wish. On May 27th, ESB announced a $425 million private investment and a pivot into Ethereum treasury strategy, which was seen as a positive because it aligned them with the crypto broom and injected major capital into the business. ESBET had a float of around 64 million shares and about 9% short. Not a huge squeeze setup, but enough combined with the Ethereum pivot and funding news to fuel a strong move. Now, we're going to take a look at ESBET. This is the daily chart. Very similar to what we just saw with NVTS. You know, they got their $425 million private investment and they pivoted into the Ethereum Treasury strategy. So, a very hot catalyst has a major gap up, closes strong, it's able to hold, it doesn't fail, and it puts in an inside day on day two. That low volume accumulation day doesn't really let shorts out. Smart money. Whoever's manipulating the stock has a chance to just accumulate all day. So again, intraday off the open on day three. We get the break over the accumulation day 2 high. That's our entry. And your stop is either a few cents below the fivem minute bar that breaks that accumulation day high or low of day. The entry is the easiest part of this trade. Now we're going to take a look at a twominut chart. Following the entry on this trade, we get an immediate squeeze and a 10-point move into some higher time frame resistance. We want to understand that in most of these examples, the volume is absolutely insane and it can easily blow past any higher time frame resistance levels, but we still always want to be aware of them. We had a strong push off the open and now we're looking at a two-minute chart. we had a pullback and then we get a second leg into this 42 area. And if we just look at a weekly chart, we could see this 42 area failed multiple times. And of course, after a quick, you know, 10point move into some higher time frame resistance, you know, the stock starts to struggle a little bit. It's definitely a solid bet to take a piece of your position off. From that point, we get a dip into VWAP that holds and then it's off to the races again. The stock breaks through that recent high and momentum comes in. We see that volume start to expand again. And as day traders, we want to take advantage of that and scale out of another piece. So, we have the first move above the day 2 high. We get a little pullback. We get a secondary move. We get some consolidation, pulls back into VWAP. I'm sure this move shakes out a lot of longs and then it just immediately reclaims and then we get the breakout and volume comes back into the stock. We want to take advantage of that and sell into that momentum. From that point on, for those of you who've been following SNB for a while, we see a clean big dog consolidation setting up over VWAP and prior resistance at 42 becomes support. We then get a break of that big dog into the day one high. So, the big dog breaks on volume. You could see that. And the volume inside this big dog consolidation really dies down, telling us that there's no real selling going on. The stock is now accepting price at these higher levels. VWAP is acting as support and that $42 resistance is now support. So we get the break of that big dog consolidation on volume through the intraday high and then we get a break of that day one high. Now, above the day one high is where the shorts could really get squeezed and when the stock could start to take off. It struggles a bit. We did get a pretty clean 7-point move off of that big dog consolidation into that day one high. So, I think it's perfectly okay to take another piece off here. And now we're left with that last piece. And similar to NVTS, we can manage this using the first close under the 9 EMA on the 5minute. Let me just say you definitely wouldn't be wrong to scale out into the move either once the stock goes parabolic. I mean, you could just see that it gets above that day one high, retests, and then effortlessly pushes from, you know, $54 to 65. Um, realistically the way that I traded this scaling out of 5% of what I had left at those whole and half dollar numbers like 65, then you get a push up into 70 and then the stock really starts to blow off. Um, and then after this blowoff, you get the failure below the five. Um, but realistically, like when you get that momentum and you get that change in character, you want to be scaling out into these huge moves where the stock is just starting to skip prices. For those of you that are good at tape reading, you can see the stock start to pause up here, and that tells us that the momentum is slowing down. APLD spiked on June 2nd after announcing two 15-year lease deals with Coreeave for 250 megawatts of AI focused data center capacity. Seen as a positive catalyst because it secured 7 billion dollar in long-term revenue tied to the AI infrastructure wave. APLD was under major short pressure. Around 35% of its 174 million share float was short. That's a textbook squeeze scenario. All right. And next, we're taking a look at APLD. So, they announced their two 15-year lease deals with Core Weeave, which was going to result in $7 billion in long-term revenue tied to AI. And what do you know? It is the same chart pattern. You get the day one move, was able to hold those gains. It closes strong. And on day two, you get this inside consolidation accumulation day. So, same exact setup. You get the break over the day one high immediately and the break over the day two high almost instantly off the open. Now, sometimes you got to be quick with these. As we've seen in the last few examples, they go right off the open. Um, you definitely don't want to chase this as it just ran a point extremely quick. So if you're miss if you miss your entry that's okay. Wait for a pullback and you could still get long versus low of day. And again the entries on these are the easiest part of the trade. Following the consolidation the stock breaks through 12 which is a clear higher time frame resistance area. We can take a look at that. So we look at a weekly it's $12 area failed acted as support. tried to act as support, acted as resistance, failed into that $12 area again. So, we have some resistance there on the weekly chart. We had a strong momentum push right through that $12 area and then momentum starts to slow. The stock starts to struggle at that 1250 area. It's a great place to take a piece of the position off. And again, when we're scaling out and I'm saying take a piece off, I'm talking about onethird or a quarter of the position. Now, similar to ESP that we just reviewed, the stock spends time consolidating above VWAP on lower volume, telling us that price is being accepted here, and there's no real selling. From the break of the consolidation, we get a nice push higher through the intraday high. But unlike ESB, we don't see that surge in volume through the high or on the break of the wedge or the consolidation. The volume is missing. If you go back and look at ESBET, it was really clear, extremely high volume relative to the opening volume bars. We don't get that here on the break. Because of this, we want to be a bit more proactive with our sales and start to scale out as no volume is coming into the stock. Then we could keep it simple and use the five minute 9 EMA trail for the rest of our position. And you can see that we get this failure and I was stopped out on the remainder. Um it did end up you know continuing to like slowly grind higher and again that's my suggestion to leave 10 20 25% of the position on just to see what could happen. RCT moved on June 28th following strong earnings, reporting 135% year-over-year revenue growth, which was seen as a positive because it showed major momentum in the business. Even without specific news release that day, RCT had a tiny float around 5 million shares and very little short interest. The small float made it highly susceptible to momentum and price manipulation. I'm sure it sucked in a bunch of shorts intraday who stumbled over themselves trying to cover into a thin tape. Here's an example of when the setup works, but it's not a clean trader intraday. But if you follow the blueprint, you still could have a successful trade. So now we're looking at RCT. And here's an example of when the setup works, but it's not clean. Not really clean intraday at all. But if you follow the blueprint, you could still have a successful trade. So you definitely wanted to go over one that you know works but just not as clean as the others. And of course you will run into these when you trade these this setup. So our entry you buy the break of the consolidation day or day two high which is $3 and you set your stop at low of day. One of the reasons why this is such a great trade and just this really simple setup is that the entry and stop is just extremely simple. You buy the break of the day two high. You set your stop at the low. And what this does and why this is such a great trade for new traders is because it helps avoid that death by a thousand cut scenario of getting in and out and trying multiple times. You have one entry, you have one stop, and you leave it alone. You leave the position alone and let it work. So, the stock goes limit up over that day two high, and then it opens higher and pushes up. Now, in a perfect scenario, this would have just continued higher and would have continued to like squeeze and trap shorts and shorts would have been getting out and fumbling over each other and the squeeze would have continued. But, it did fail. So, once I see the stock start to fail after that open and push higher, I'm going to be smart. I'm going to take some profit off the table in case it just reverses and goes limit down. Now that I have some profit locked in, I could be patient and wait for the trade to work. You can see a retest of that accumulation day two high and then it reclaims VWAP and then goes limit up over the intraday high. So essentially we have an opening range break and you can see in comparison to the other tickers that we've reviewed so far, this is doing pretty low volume. it goes limit up and then what it should do after this is it should really make a run for that day one high and test that day one high and it can't. It just gets stuffed. So as soon as I see it go limit up and push and get stuffed like that, I need to take some profits off the table again and it's messy after that. But that's okay. Now we're in from excellent prices. we have some profit locked in and you could just let it work. Again, the reason why I like this trade is because it's one entry, one exit, and it helps new traders avoid that scenario where they're just getting chopped up, chopped up, taking small losses, you know, trying to get in when it gets above VWAP and then getting stopped out when it gets back below. You avoid that entire scenario with this simple strategy and you're patient with it. We get another attempt at a high a day break and it fails. So, we're taking an additional piece of profit off the table each time it fails to make a new high. And then finally, we get a break of that day one high and we also get a break of the all-time highs. This is a recent IPO and the all-time high is $5. This is where I really want to see a change in character and the stock start to just run and squeeze higher effortlessly. And again, it can't. It stuffs. And that ends the trade for me. This is where we should have seen the change in character. The stock start to act a little bit better and really start to squeeze shorts and it cannot. On July 1st, Wolf jumped after filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy with a plan to eliminate $4.6 billion in debt, which was seen as a positive because it meant the company would shed liabilities and potentially survived long term. As far as short interest goes, Wolf was the standout. Nearly half of its 154 million share float was shorted. So, when the bankruptcy filing news hit, the squeeze was inevitable. All right, now we're going to take a look at Wolf and Wolf. What do you know? Same exact pattern. Strong day one on their restructuring chapter 11 news, inside day on day two, breakout on day three. Let's take a look at this. Now, similar to the four other examples so far, right off the open, we get the break of the day two accumulation day inside day high. That's our entry. The stop is low of day. This was a pretty easy one to manage. Um, anytime a penny stock starts to trade into that $1 level, like that's a huge psychological level. Um, big inflection point for penny stocks. And as Wolf trades into that level and starts to struggle, smart idea to take a piece of the profits off the table. Next, Wolf trades into that day one high. You see some volume coming in over that day one high and struggles, right? I just want to see it effortlessly blow past that day one high and it can. It starts to struggle. So, I'm going to take another piece of profits, sell another quarter of the position here. You can see on we're looking at the twominut here. It's holding the 9 EMA really well. It's able to reclaim that day one high. So things are looking pretty good at this point. Pulls back into the 21 EMA and lifts and then we get some blowoff volume in here. And you can see it really well on the five minute chart. So, anytime I'm momentum trading, day trading, I'm looking at a one, two, five, and 15 minute chart because you'll see different things in different patterns like this. And what I notice on the five minute, we have a pretty big blowoff here, highest volume bar of the day. And at that point, I'm taking the high probability exit and I'm just selling the remainder of my position. Um, again, like I mentioned, it's never a bad idea to hold 10 20% of your position just to see what could happen since usually on this trade, we're in from right near low of day. We're always in from excellent prices, it seems, on this trade. Um, and I will say that Wolf did end up going to $3. I think it was $3.30 the very next day. So again, just want to just want to really hit this point home. Um, when you're in from grade prices, it doesn't hurt to hold 10 to 20% of your position to see what could happen. Um, and what that also does is it starts to train your swing trading brain, starts to get you used to holding winners longer. BMNR exploded on July 1st after raising $250 million to launch an Ethereum treasury strategy and expand into crypto mining, which was seen as a positive because it positioned them as a crypto play with major capital behind it. Similar to RCT, this ticker had a tiny float around 2 million shares, making it susceptible to a thin tape and intraday squeezes. It's a variation of the setup which looks a little different on the daily chart, but the blueprint for the trade is still valid given the story here and the small float. So, the stock had a strong day one and closed on highs and it gapped up on day two and it closed well above that day one high. However, on day three, you could see it puts in that really key, really important accumulation day inside day. And on day three, if we zoom in, breaks over that accumulation day high and it never looks back. And this was a pretty wild one as you could see. So again, I did not trade this one, but I wanted to showcase another variation of this trade. commonalities between all six of these trades. All of these trades get above their consolidation day high within the first 30 minutes. They all have a strong day one move driven by a catalyst. Each stock had a meaningful news event, partnerships, funding, restructuring, or earnings. Day one closes were up 48 to 695% from prior close. Real momentum, not random pops. They had a tight inside day on day two or in BMR's case day three. Most names put in a low volume consolidation day after the big move. This helps shake out chasers and gives shorts confidence and it also lets the big money accumulate the stock setting up the day three breakout. Now the day three breakout over the accumulation day high. Entry came on a clean break of the day two high with many continuing through the day one high. This level often triggered short covering and new buyer momentum. They all have simple entry and risk management techniques. Entries were straightforward break of the consolidation day high. Stops placed at low of day or just under the five-minute candle that broke the level. Y'all had explosive continuation. Once the breakout triggered, most of these ran multiple points, giving multiple opportunities to scale out into momentum. Many respected VWAP psychological whole numbers or the 9 EMA on the two and fiveminut charts for trailing and exits. They all had clear float short interest dynamics. Some had high short interest like APLD, Wolf, NVTS, and squeezed hard. Others had tiny floats, RCT, BMNR, making them move violently off of high volume. Even SBET with moderate short interest at crazy momentum due to that crypto pivot. They all offer a clean blueprint. You can repeat a strong catalyst, a big day, one move, a consolidation or inside day, and a breakout over the consolidation day high. It's a simple sequence and it works especially when paired with strong volume, a low float or or and high short interest and of course an attractive catalyst. Follow the blueprint, manage risk at low of day, and scale out into strength. These setups keep showing up, and now you know exactly what to look for. So, you're an active trader, not doing as well as you want, not doing as well as you deserve, and you just can't figure out why you can't become profitable no matter how hard you try. Well, let me show you why. This is your competition. The traders in this room, this room right here is full of elite traders. some of whom are making seven and even eight figures a year. In fact, our top guys have made nearly 20 million each in net trading profits in a single year. Let's head to my office so I can share more. So, you're probably used to seeing videos of lavish trader lifestyles, trading gurus trading off of a laptop for an hour a day, heck, maybe even 15 minutes a day, and then them relaxing on some secluded beach for the rest of the day. Well, all I can tell you is that our traders train like pro aletes. They live and breathe the markets and are continually working on their trading skills because at our firm, that's what we found it really takes to make it in this game. I'm Mike Bellofury, co-founder and managing partner of SMB Capital, one of the world's top proprietary trading firms located in Midtown Manhattan. And we're always looking for trading talent to hire and develop. And not just to trade in-house on our desk, but also to trade from their own home, entirely using our firm's capital. And we have numerous traders doing just that, allowing them to make upwards of seven figures trading the firm's capital without risking their own money. But to even get a shot at something like that, you need to have the right training. That's why we're doing a new free online presentation in which we share how you can get an interview with SMB to become an in-house or remote trader. Trading firm capital without risking yours and gaining access to all of our firm's coaching and resources. And the best part, you don't have to be a profitable trader yet. In fact, we prefer to mold profitable traders with our methods and our techniques. That's why we have just three simple criteria that can earn anyone an interview. We're looking for highly ambitious and determined traders who fit our culture first and foremost. So, if you believe that could be you, sign up for the free 1-hour online presentation by clicking the link that's in your top right corner of your screen now.
