---
title: third day surge
type: topic
tags: [trading, imported_note]
source_count: 1
created: 2026-05-12
updated: 2026-05-12
---

# third day surge

Third day surge for today was IPDN that we were kind of watching, but they are already here's the issue for here's what for me third day surge is this there's your high from day one massive volume big drop off day two great this for me okay is the issue I'm having is the range it's given I always 99% of the time trade third day surge as a backside pattern In other words, at some point it should get stuffed to not break out of 11. It can. It can go to 20. We saw sock P do it. Maybe this week IPN PDN, it's a good week for that. We're having higher price stocks running with range. But it still comes down to riskreward and where do I risk on this setup? Okay, like where is it gapping to? Where's it gapping from? Where is it in relation to its best support in the fives and it's my price targets in the tens, right? price target should be in the nines as well if I'm trading this pattern properly. In other words, I should be in the green very very much so on this setup in my opinion. If I'm to play it today, [snorts] here's your green, red, red, green is at seven. Okay, it's gapping up to the eights. So, I would still play it I would play high seven support or something like that. And it's in terms of like gap and crap reversal. Um or green red red green green green which is that 690 area right the golden number. So um you can make a case for watching that area for third day surge. It's just not clean. I prefer guys to get third my third day surges in areas off of day two support. Does that make sense? Yes or no? Just personally that's how I play it. Um, it's got to be a nice clean day two support for me to play, guys. That gives me the best what on this big picture setup. Riskreward. And that is what guides every Yeah, that's right, Joanne. Risk reward, baby. Right. So, at the end of the day, I would love for this to run, but I don't see a setup there for me. And that's fine. I'm going to watch how things pan out today, especially with how things panned out yesterday. Okay, we had some singles on the bigger gappers and faders. They did not panther. Um, now STI's already gone to nine. It's already gone three to almost 10 bucks. Okay. Um, got warrants in the 16 at 16 bucks. Some pipe warrants in the 22s. They had done a private placement at 33 cents, too. And 75 cents. pre this split. It looks like that they did a split this year. So, split pump not on volume. This is the first time they've done volume. [snorts] I only really see the 550 area panther type play if it's me. So, this is the only thing I would really consider this morning at all. Again, it would have worked yesterday as well on triple U, like just playing the area, the predictable bounce off the area. And in this case, at least to pre at least to the VWAP here, um the pre-market VWAP, which they which by the way, you guys, if you're not using that and you're on Weebull, it still has the pre-market VWAP. It just resets it the second the market opens. That's why you see the VWAP go straight down to the market open price. Does that make sense for those who are watching Weeull? Yes or no? So, you can still kind of gauge like, oh, but there's that pre-market view app. I' we'd be under view app on the pre-market and but like it opened here, so that's what they're going to work it off of. Which is kind of cool to know and and understand anyways. So, don't beat yourself up too much or get too freaked out. I was trying to mention during the study session yesterday for those who are like, "Oh, now I don't know which VWAP to use." I am using both VWAPs. Okay? Personally, I'm using both. both as price targets if they're above me. Um, essentially both as price targets they're if they're above and then I'm just using the Trading View VW app that includes pre-market and after hours when there's a bunch of volume pre-market and after hours. Um, in terms of entries, like am I under or over VWAP? Truly, I'm going to be using for the most part I'll be using the pre-market included VWAP. Okay. But just take note of both. So that's the idea here. There's decent range back to VWAP. And then if it were to catch a bid and start to get wild and get full panther, like 60% of the time it works every time. We saw it not work twice yesterday. I kind of feel like it would work today. Okay. Just like based off the odds of of traditionally how that setup's worked over time. Does that make sense? But either way, it doesn't mean you don't take profits into the sevens and eights and nines just in case it doesn't work like you always do, right? Okay. So, there's STI. Um there's BTBD, right? There's BTBD. Um there's your 30-inute chart extended on the 30. It's not a day one. They recently ran. Okay. beginning of the of August they ran um two to five intraday closed at two in the twos intraday when they did volume today they're going to gap up to this area right here look where they're gapping to um could it run it could there's some room to that resistance on the daily right here okay there is room to that we are opening here in the four range so 5 550. If we get up to that resistance, there is room there technically speaking, I suppose.
