---
title: Transcript of The 7 Trading Signals You Can’t Trade Without
type: topic
tags: [trading, imported_note]
source_count: 1
created: 2026-05-12
updated: 2026-05-12
---

# Transcript of The 7 Trading Signals You Can’t Trade Without

Every day we step into the arena, we sit down at our desk, we turn on our desktops, and we're hit with a wall of information. We are processing a ton all at once all day. We're doing mental math on the fly, calculating expected value as it constantly changes, grading opportunities in seconds. We're on calls talking about trade setting up. We're zoning into reading the tape to watch an offer lift. We're calling out another watch list name breaking out. It's chaotic, it's fast, and it's noisy. And amidst all that noise, we need to have anchors. Having checks in favor for our setups are our anchors. To everyone else, they're just criteria to enter a trade. To us, these are our mantras. Checks in favor are what we need to see in a trade to be able to quiet the noise, put our shoulders back, and put on risk with conviction. There is something so incredibly powerful about the moment you know your checks in favor like the back of your hand, then you're seeing your checks in favor in real time. And it's not a setup anymore. It's conviction slapping you in the face. Today, we are pulling back the curtain on our seven most powerful checks in favor for breakouts. These aren't your classic entry rules you can find in any trading textbook. This is the DNA of how Garrett and I actually make money. These seven factors are our lifeblood. There isn't a day that goes by that we aren't obsessed with these, grading them, debating them, and hunting for them. This is how we see the world of breakouts. Welcome back to the Trading Floor podcast, episode 13. Here I'm Tim and here with Garrett and Kurt. How's it going, Garrett? >> What's up, Tim? So, I got a list for you, man. I got I got more than five. Like I know I know we've we've got our playbooks. We kind of know we kind of know what we're doing with our playbooks, but I went ahead and grabbed 15 checks in favor that I think we pay attention to when we're trading breakouts and I split them up into three categories. Okay. So, we've got some that pertain to the setup. So, what do what do I mean? We're trying to answer the question like, "Does this deserve to be on my watch list?" Right? I got them all right here, by the way. >> I love it. >> The context, right? That's another big thing. Another big category, right? And we have checks in favor within this. And we're trying to answer the question like, does this have a reason to go? Right? Timing is the third category that these checks in favor fall under. And this would be trying to answer the question, is this happening now? Right? Because there's a difference between having a great idea, seeing something that's set up, having the context where this is actually something that could really go in a big way, and then you don't have the timing. Right. >> Right. So, there's also checks in the favor that have to do with the timing. So, I really enjoyed splitting these up into these different categories because it organizes them in a way where you're kind of thinking about certain ones together at certain moments and then other ones like as the timing starts to come together, you might actually be starting to think about those timing ones more. So, I thought we could go what I want to do is I want to rip through all of these checks in favor and I want to get your opinion. We can debate it, but I want to get your opinion on whether these are like a must-have check in favor or just one that adds conviction, right? That would be like the middle ground. Like totally solid, but maybe not like a non-negotiable. And then like an extra, we call it extra credit, right? Meaning like we don't need this, but it's certainly a bonus in a lot of situations. So, if we can do a good job of categorizing these, I think that we'll in the end we're going to have some that will fall under that category of must-have, and that's going to be that's going to be our most powerful checks in favor for breakout trades. >> Would you like to gain the biggest edge a retail trader can get? All of our daily and weekly in-house trader meetings are now available to you. Just head over to smbtrainingfloor.com to find out more. >> So, let me make sure I have you right. So, we have setting, context, timing as the three categories. 15 checks in favor. >> Do we know does it matter how many are in each of those that you picked? It's not equal amount, is it? >> It's almost an equal amount. They're about five. Like, there's one that has six and one that has four and one that has five. So, it's about >> it's about five each. And you know, just just to put this into perspective before we start ripping into this, like a check-in favor is something like when you're making a trade, right? It's like, is the tape confirming, right? Is there like maybe it's a type of trade where you you want to see something on the tape and that becomes a check in favor for your trade. So, we're going to talk about what does this mean for us when we're trading breakouts, right? And I I actually opened up our team breakout playbook to to kind of make sure I didn't miss anything. Um and I I did a little a little quick review. All right. So let's >> That's great. Yeah. Let's get into it. So we're putting them in the three buckets. Must haves, ads, conviction, extra credit. All right. Ready to roll. >> Exactly. Exactly. Must haves are very special. So we want to >> we want to reserve those. So let's let's start with the setup. All right. We'll we'll do these categories like one by one. All right. So, number one, the pink line, right? You know what I mean by that? Oh, yeah. And those who watched our episode on the pink line know what we mean by that. But what we mean by that is a really significant price level. And how would you define that? Right? Because we can we can actually grade the pink line. Like that becomes its own thing. Like we can grade the setup, but we're often grading like how good is this price level? What goes into that for you? >> As we went over in the podcast episode a while back, a pink line doesn't necessarily have to be this higher time frame level. It doesn't have to be a daily or weekly level. And it could happen intraday. But the big thing is it's a significant breakout level where there should be a change in character of the tape. Once a stock gets above this level, you should get new buyers stepping in. Once price lifts above this level, you should get volume coming in when we get above this level. Uh, and the bigger thing with the pink line, and I'm already going to put it as a must-have for me when we're doing our categories, is it allows you to avoid the mid-range trading, the trading in no man's land, and it allows you to take breakouts when they're actually breaking out of ranges. >> Yeah. >> Okay. Okay, which is huge. >> And so a pink line could be a level that's tested multiple times and failed. Often like you're going to see failed breakouts at this pink line, which strengthens it and strengthens it. You might see a lot of volume at this level. Like every time we come up there, like if you go back and look at that like Nvidia 500 breakout from like a few years ago, we always talk about every time on the daily chart it came up to that 500 level, it was a huge volume day >> and failed, right? which just strengthens that level and then it tightens up against it which we'll >> we'll talk about that too. Um >> but the pink line being a high quality pink line and then the entire methodology around how we trade around that pink line is kind of everything to these breakouts. So I agree with you. This is a mustave. And it's how you visually see the breakout >> where like you said, you know, they're testing the level so many times and that's when you start putting the pink line there. Like you can argue that you can't even have a pink line without any previous failures at the level because then you don't know it's significant, >> right? You and you could argue you can't have a breakout without a pink line. So, all right, this is a mustave. Easy. >> That was easy. >> That was easy. Okay. Number two, 30 minute squeeze. This is an interesting one. I think I'm going to deliberate right now. My head's going to ads conviction. Um because the 30 minute squeeze what we've found um and we're talking about the volatility cycles and we're looking at >> otherwise known as like the Ballinger band squeeze or on most platforms like a TTM squeeze um indicator is going to do the same thing, but it's it's measuring the volatility and the compression of the stock. So when it when the stock on that time frame gets really compressed, it gets into what what you call a squeeze on that time frame. Sorry to interrupt, but that's >> No. Yeah, exactly. >> Yeah. >> And you explained it even better than me. But for me, it usually what we use the 30 minute squeeze as a way of saying this has enough energy to make a trend day today. A stock could have a trending day. It's built up a ton of energy on the 30-inut chart. And usually that, you know, could kind of um echo out to like eight bars of continuation, which would be, you know, 30 minute, eight bars. But the reason I'm thinking the middle category in the middle bucket for 30 minute squeeze is it always will add conviction in a trade. But there will be some breakout trend trades that were trading on a higher time frame and they won't have a 30 minute squeeze. Like if we're trading a weekly breakout and I'm going to be perfectly fine taking them. Do you want to sit in on all of our daily and weekly in-house trader meetings? There's no bigger edge retail traders can get. Visit SMB tradingfloor.com to learn more. >> Well, 30 minutes because it's on the 30 minute chart, we're basically talking about a nice con compression pattern, sideways consolidation that lasts for like a day and a half or or maybe a couple days. So, it's a it's on a lower time fra. We might be just looking at this nice range that it could also break out from over the last few days, which means it has the energy to make an opening drive. It's like a compression within a compression. We're getting that shortterm energy buildup to blast through the open and rip in the morning, right? And we those are the best kinds of breakouts. So, I would agree with you that like not all breakouts need this, but it certainly helps set it up for a powerful opening drive. So, adds conviction. 100% agree. >> So, that's a good point. A lot of opening drives, like we've seen it a ton, they get bought from a 30 minute squeeze and sometimes, which maybe this is one of the ones later, but they get bought usually from the 10 and 20 moving average we've been seeing a bunch. >> Yeah. Would you take a breakout trade and you enter like the way you're executing in the first 30 minutes if it wasn't in a 30 minute squeeze? Like what would that be? >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean sometimes if you just have a really big daily level like a really great pink line like you're just going to take it when it gets above, right? Like you're not it doesn't have to be in a 30 minute squeeze. It's just sometimes that 30 minute chart is actually quite extended. Like let's talk about the opposite scenario where the stock runs into the level, right? And on a 30-inut chart that might mean, you know, it spent like a couple days like running into the level and then it when it just prints above, are you going to buy it? Well, that's probably not as high probability trade as something that gets up there and then starts to compress and goes sideways for like a couple days, develops a range, and then breaks out with all kinds of energy to like make that that next leg. So, it like resets on that 30 minute chart. So, I think it makes the trade better. I think it makes it more clear. I think it makes that timing easier. It's just like a lot more confident buying through like a consolidation break um when we're talking about like a bigger daily or like weekly level than something that just sort of like gets up there and like trades above the level. But if the level's big enough, if it starts holding, you know, still going to buy it. So I can't say it's a mustave. Can >> Yeah, I fully agree. And I like how you put it, too. So many times when it is extended on the 30, we'll just wait for it to actually hold above. Like if you're just taking that first offer, lifting like so many times, they fail right on you. >> Yeah, 100%. Um, so number three is higher time frame squeeze. So, this is the same exact concept, but like let's just say a daily or weekly time frame squeeze signal, meaning we've got a nice compression pattern on the daily or weekly, which, you know, that would take um gosh, like couple months to, you know, a couple a couple weeks to a couple months to kind of set up and get tight, right? Depending on whether it's the daily or the weekly. So, these are our big higher time frame setups. And now bringing it away from the opening drives to our like breadand butter juicy breakout trend trades. Like I would say that's a mustave. >> It's going to be somewhere. It's going to be on the hourly or the daily or the weekly if it's a really good tight consolidation to be A+. >> Yeah. >> To be A+ I would say you got to have it on one of the one of the higher time frames. Um 100%. because there is some like breakout trading where you're kind of more like trying to play pullbacks and you're riding an uptrend in a leading stock and like I know I've like taken advantage of like certain setups like the wick play and they're like mid-range but those aren't the breakouts we're talking about here and like if we're having like you said an A+ breakout like it has to have a squeeze on some time frame >> and you're looking at that squeeze to then be like all right this breakout's happening on this time frame. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> And if you have the weekly, daily, and hourly, even better across all of them. >> Yeah, absolutely. All right. So, number four, uptrend. >> What do you mean? >> Does the stock need to be in an uptrend? >> No. I would say, all right, interesting. >> I'm glad you said that. >> Yeah. I mean, because we're looking not always like you get an SNDK like and we're looking at this trade and like it's already made its move and this is like a more of a trend continuation, but some of the best breakouts are your base breakouts, >> right? Initial like stage one into like stage two uptrend base breakout like a fresh >> like we're going to beat it like a dead horse but Fastly. >> Yeah. FA Exactly. Okay. Fastly. um which was an earnings play that we took that that was basically a breakout more a little bit more of a catalyst play. You know, I'm not sure it had a daily squeeze or anything like that, but it certainly had a base. >> And you know, if we look at um >> you know, stuff like remember like that Twilio like a few years ago on earnings that broke out of that massive base. >> Um >> Oh, yeah. >> Some of these IPO base breakouts that that go sideways since the IPO and then and then break. um great trades, but they're not necessarily in uptrends. They're just in big big boxes, right? >> Even the initial SNDK IPO base breakout, too, it did nothing, >> get spun off, and then uh like that was just a great base, but if you were looking for an uptrend, >> that's true. >> Yeah. >> All right. So, I would I'd say extra credit because yeah, you it's kind of it doesn't really >> you don't really need it. >> Like, it's great. I mean, I think the trend continuation ones are probably the most common. All right, number five, blue sky. And this doesn't mean all-time highs. It just means is there air up there? Meaning like, you know, no resistance. You can get you can get pretty good targets without >> without running into resistance. I would say a mustave for me on that one because if you're taking a breakout trade that has a ton of overhead resistance like very close to your breakout level. >> Yeah. >> One that sounds like it's probably in the middle of a range and it's not really a breakout. And then two, it's just very hard to expect clean momentum. And like the idea with these breakout trend trades is like we want it to move away from price quick, you know? >> Yeah. Yeah. So, if it's going to run like a half ATR and it's going to then like go into an area that it's failed a ton, like it could be different this time, but like it's a little harder. Yeah. >> And you you don't you also don't want to be forced into just taking some, you know, profit target that's not giving you any riskreward just because there's like a resistance level there. That's not really a >> breakout, right? That's a good point. Um, so, okay. So, Blue Sky, I mean, we So, you're saying mustave. >> Yeah, >> I agree. I agree with you. I'm just seeing that we we've done five of these and three of them have been musthaves already, which is more than maybe maybe I made a really good list here, probably because I looked at our playbook. But, um, >> all right. So, the last one for the setup. And do you see what I'm doing here? Like these are all things that >> are kind of answering the question like when we're screening like for potential breakouts and we're trying to say like does this deserve to be on my watch list? We're thinking like okay is there a really clear breakout level? The pink line, right? Is it in a 30 minute squeeze? Okay. Is it in a higher time frame squeeze? Is it in an uptrend? Is there no resistance? Right. So the the sixth one is is it a momentum name? >> Ooh. And I definitely see what you're doing because these are all things we could do before the market opens, which is great because they go into grading the potential of the trade and then you see it real time. >> Yeah. >> All right. So, is it a momentum name? >> If you asked me this like two years ago, I would have thought this didn't matter as much as it does. And rep after rep, like trade after trade, it matters a lot. So, I'm thinking in the middle, add conviction because there are certain scenarios where a name that you might not be familiar with or like it's not necessarily a momentum name has a catalyst and it has an insane amount of volume and it can trade like a stock in play. But what I've noticed like really in the last like two years is like the shitty names like if they usually trade shitty, they continue to do that. And like the names that usually trade very choppy, you expect to have them trade differently, but there are certain names that just behave in a particular way on breakouts and behave in a way that momentum names don't. And like for the most part, I'm not that as excited about those. >> Yeah. And and it's almost like define momentum name because that that can change. So, like you're I totally agree with you, but what's so funny about it is like, >> you know, a couple years ago we might be saying, >> you know, X, Y, and Z are momentum names and then now, >> you know, we're talking about um you know, we're talking about like natural gas names like yesterday, right? >> So, you know, that that >> LNG like that's that can change >> based on the themes and the market environment and and new stocks pop up. So, it's good to be flexible with what your definition of a momentum name is, but >> and quantify it like we do with the volatility volume index, which maybe at some point we'll talk about, but >> Oh, good, good call. Yeah, we could do that. Um, exactly. So, all right. So, you're saying adds conviction. >> Yeah. >> So, you're saying it's like important. It's not necessarily a mustave because >> and more just because the caveat with catalyst >> but like >> if I look at it >> almost majority of my trading breakout trading is in momentum names. >> Yeah, I agree. I agree. It would have to be it would take like a really really special um catalyst for me to play like a breakout and like like a technical breakout and like target >> or something like that, right? Like I mean maybe retail names are going nuts and that's a whole theme but um because the funny thing is like when I started trading and looking at this stuff like I would find a great breakout level and squeezes and uptrends and and blue sky and you know tightness right which is the squeezes in like random names and I would be thinking like oh man when this gets above this level this is going to go nuts because it looks the same as like a great breakout and they just wouldn't, but then like Tesla would and then after a while you realize, oh, okay, yeah, that's it's just because certain names have different characters >> and bringing it all together too because Tesla is like the best example. Maybe it moves this year, but like in the past it's just the best momentum stock of all time. Uh, going to the pink line when I was saying like you want to see a change in character. What you really want to see in a good pink line, in a good breakout level, is that IV can expand above that breakout level, which then hints at momentum names are where IV expands, >> right? The >> not non-momentum names because they have the options chain like >> you get the gamma squeeze activity and stuff like that. Absolutely. >> Here's a mindbending stat for you. SMB traders have 20x to 40x higher odds of success than independent traders. Find out why and how to greatly increase your odds by visiting smbtradingfloor.com. >> Next category. So that was setup. Now the next category is context. And then we'll get to timing which is actually my favorite one. >> So what do we got four in must haves to what is it real quick? I'm >> we've got we've got pink line, right, which is the breakout level, quality of the breakout level. We've got higher time frame squeeze. So, we want to see a really nice compression on the higher time frame. So, a daily, an hourly, a weekly chart, right? That's that's what's defining the the breakout range and that compression that it's breaking out of. And then we've got blue sky. >> Yep. >> No resistance. Okay, great. That's a that's a nice technical setup. Those are all technicals, right? So, that's a good way to define >> a solid technical setup. All right, so now we have context. So, this is trying to answer like now does this have a reason to go, right? So, like not only is the technical setup great, right? We've got our compression, we've got our level that's been tested many times, and we've got blue sky ahead above, right? But why? Like why should this make a huge move? Right? So these are the things that that can really create a tailwind in my opinion. All right. Number seven overall because we've got 15 of these whole sector going. Yeah. So, this one is going to be rarer than any of the checks in favor we've said before. >> Yeah. >> You see it a lot with theme trading and when you get it like that could be really powerful. >> Yeah. >> Like really powerful. I'm kind of like on the fence right now of like actually not on the fence because it wouldn't be a mustave cuz like I said it can be rare but when you spot it it's like oh all of the drones are going like yesterday all of the natural gas we're going and then you have some leading and then you find LNG. >> So yeah I would say AD's conviction but that's a that's a good interesting one. >> It might be like the the king of ads conviction. >> Yes. Yeah. like star it. >> If we had like a ads mega conviction category, it would probably make that >> right. >> Oh yeah, I would 100%. >> This would be this adds a lot of conviction. Um I agree. And it's you can't really put it as a must have because sometimes you've got stocks that are going off of their own accord and it really doesn't it's really not associated with a group or a theme and like it doesn't mean like don't trade it. So, you can't really say must have, but when we get something like that, I mean, even the other day, like all the memory names were going >> like all all at once, and it was just really easy to trade SNDK to the long side. >> Are you talking about before MU earnings? >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That day. >> I mean, I mean, they all did like off the open today, but I was I was really talking about like the day that they all started to break to new highs. Like, they all did it together. So, it's like it was a lot easier to see it and just trust it because they they're all kind of helping each other. All right. So, ads conviction. That makes sense. All right. Market tailwind. >> Okay. Yeah. Market tailwind. Interesting. So, right now we've had a market that's been in range the entire year. and tailwind. If you're referring to like the markets in an uptrend above the moving averages and you need that for stocks to break out, I would say no because like even this year, we've seen leading stocks break out and make some really good moves while the market's stuck in a range. But at the same point, this has not been a very favorable swing long environment. Um, you can go off a ton of metrics, but yeah. What do you think? >> What What did Kramer say? Like there's a bull market >> somewhere >> somewhere always. >> Yeah. And then he hits his little soundboard. >> Yeah. So, no, I agree. And this could also be like the market is trending higher today and our breakouts happening today. Like, does that need to happen? >> Okay. Yeah, it it I didn't specify time frame, so it could be either, but I think both have the same answer, which is like there's a there are a lot of caveats to this answer because it depends like on a sliding scale like how much your stock is a market stock versus its own like idiosyncratic thing, right? So, if we're trading a breakout in some lowflat natural gas name, like does the market need to be like, does SPY need to be like in an uptrend? Well, maybe absolutely not. Maybe it had like are we trading are we trading a gold miner? Like, might not have anything to do with the market. Are we trading Apple or Meta? Like maybe, right? Like that's that that might be a lot more tied to the market. So, I I think that that totally depends what we're trading because you're right, like especially in a year like this year where we've seen more dispersion as everyone likes to to say these days. Um, and sector rotation and just like unbelievable strength and in some names and and sectors and themes and unbelievable weakness in others, right? Like software is going one way, like oil's going another. um we're seeing everything's kind of in a world of its own and we've we've seen markets where everything's kind of trading together. So this is one of the more like aggressively rotational markets that that I've ever seen in my entire life. So, especially in a market like this, I think that that you can kind of throw that rule out the window as long as you know what you're trading as long as you understand that like this is the theme that is happening now and that is in an uptrend um versus the theme that's out of favor or even worse maybe like a theme that's not even in play that's irrelevant. You might not get much legs in this kind of market because you know the the indices have been stuck in this like really narrow range. So the stuff that have has not been in play has been kind of a nightmare like trading Tesla. >> Oh yeah. >> Like what do you like I can't imagine doing that right now. And honestly >> at some point >> it's gonna be great at some point. >> To put it in into perspective too like on an intraday basis having the market tailwind like if you had a leading stock breaking out like I'm you can think of any of like the fiber optics or our fastly and the market was red or even like just flat not like strong intraday would that hold you back from taking the breakout that you've been stalking? >> No. And especially with and you mentioned Fastley and you know another one of these um checks in favor that we're going to cover was so strong in that trade that it then just completely trumps like worrying about what the market's doing. Right. So there's certain things >> that happens a bunch. Yeah. >> Yeah. There's certain things that make it and I think the thing to like be asking and answering for yourself or at least what I like to do is just an like ask like how much of what I'm doing is a market play like what's the percent is this a 80% market play or like 2% market play big difference right and so different factors like if it's some random lowflat gold miner like probably not as much of a market play um If it has a unbelievable catalyst, maybe it's not as much of an AR marketplace. So, all right. What are we gonna call this? Market Tillin. Is that What is that? Extra credit or or throw it out? >> Should we put it in the trash? >> Okay. >> Yeah, >> put extra credit. >> Yeah, because it it's not going to hurt. >> Yeah, it's good. Um, but it also and it would there's a little like in between between ad conviction because it definitely sometimes adds conviction but like for the most part I would put on >> if you're if it's a high rating market play then it's then it almost becomes necessary. So um all right number nine offsides positioning. >> So this could be like high short interest. That's like the obvious one, but it could also just be like some price action that sometimes you just recognize as trapping the other side of the trade, right? So, in this case, it would be maybe the maybe the sentiment on the street is negative on this stock. Maybe that someone came out with a short report on it, but it like didn't go down. Or there was an offering and it didn't go down. And maybe it took out support and then held and then ripped higher, right? and then or maybe it has high short interest like that kind of vibe. Um offsides positioning. What do you think of that? >> Yeah, this is so fun because as you're going I'm just thinking of it different trades from the past that fall into each of those >> phrases. But uh I would say add is adds conviction. I would put it in the middle bucket. um right off the bat like it could be super powerful in certain trades where like I'm thinking back to Ethereum last year um on that trend continuation that breakout uh that we took in August and like there was just a lot of people um off sides on that Parish trade. >> Yeah. >> And I'm thinking of like Tesla um which now probably was like two years ago where it has like a failed breakdown. Everyone's like Tesla looks terrible and it can't go lower. >> Yeah. >> I'm thinking maybe today again as the market holds up and it doesn't break down where it's like another time the market's looking terrible. This time it tests bottom end of the range. It's holding below the two 200 day. It has to break down and it doesn't. And that could maybe be some people off sides. Totally. >> Um, >> it's not fully necessary as a mustave >> for me. Um, because you'll get breakouts in the strongest stuff that don't have failed breakdowns and maybe there isn't a short also quantum last year. Like talk about just >> Yeah, that's one of the ones that when I was writing this down, I was like really thinking about that too. Like so many people like doubting the fundamentals for good reason. But what so this is where you start to combine these things like >> Yeah. >> So unbelievable um bearish sentiment on the quantum based on their earnings and or lack thereof and how far they'd run and how far out in time that technology supposedly was and and you could go on and on about the fundamentals and they'd run and but what did they do? They consolidated sideways through time and developed an A+ pink line, a daily or monthly higher time frame squeeze and they had clear blue sky above. So all three musthaves under the setup category they had and those are the only must haves we've marked so far. And then you've got that combined with this like offsides positioning which can create like such an explosive trade. So I originally when I was putting this down thought it was going to be extra credit but I think you're right. I think it it's it's like the ultimate like conviction adder on on some of these trades where you know if you're trading like like an Nvidia that's like a new AI leader back in 2024. um big time theme like no one's questioning that like they're blowing out earnings like left and right and it's like so it can't be a mustave because that didn't that didn't really have it you know like things like that don't have it to your point. Okay. And it almost like it could add conviction in the lens of holding too and the imagination you can have with like breakouts and where they could potentially go where if you do get that like crazy offsides positioning, >> it could add conviction to really hold >> and it's not like one to take off day one. It's like I mean what if these shorts just get squeezed in a big way and then you get the quantum a thousand% moves. >> Totally. Totally. Especially if you get that volume coming in, which we'll talk about. All right, >> what do we got? >> All right, so number 10, Catalyst. >> Ooh, love catalyst. >> As much as it hurts me though, I I can't put it as a mustave. >> No, I can't. You really can't. >> So that's Ed's conviction. Um, and a lot of big moves and a lot of breakouts do tend to come from catalysts. Um, but it's not every time. And you can have an A+ technical breakout trade and like squeezes on every time frame and we're hitting that with conviction without a catalyst. >> And and let's be clear here like we're talking fundamental catalyst and I probably should have wrote wrote that as such. Um because you could say that like a technical breakout like is a catalyst. >> Yeah. like a high graded paper. >> We're talking like semantics here, but we're talking about like a fundamental catalyst and we're also talking about a catalyst that breaks it out on that day. Like there are names that had a catalyst a month ago and they're still kind of trading. They're still in favor from that catalyst and maybe thematically trading in that way because of this growing narrative. But that's not what we're talking about. We're talking about a catalyst on day one breakout. Does it need a catalyst to push it through the pink line? >> Answer is no. Sadly, >> I mean, it does not. And and this is an interesting one and I would encourage everyone to go like look back at all the best breakouts and like try to find like news on that day because like we've done this and often there is but again it's like this sliding scale right so like if something has an unbelievable cat like a complete inflection in how the market is perceiving the stock on the It doesn't really need like sometimes it just doesn't need like a tight consolidation or some perfect like pink line. It just gaps up, trades tons of volume and then trends for the next four weeks, >> right? >> And this is one where in the adds conviction category in that bucket like star this one too because this could like you're saying add a ton of conviction. >> Yeah. But like that would be like an A++ catalyst or an A+ catalyst that can really just make the thing go on its own right. But what if you've got an A+ pink line, great higher time frame compression. Um you've got like a 30 minute squeeze. It's pressing up against that like on a lower time frame and you got clear blue sky. So you've got the setup. Yeah. >> Now, sometimes you only need like a analyst upgrade on that day. >> Call on me. >> Why? What? >> This is making me think of the SNDK breakout in uh January where basically, you remember that 30 minute squeeze setup and then no one knew the news, but overnight in Korea, Samsung like raised their prices >> and that was on one two >> basically where it then tested its previous all-time high. did the stutter step and then the next day broke out. And that falls in that small analyst. It's like a hidden catalyst, but it did have something >> 100. And that's the weird thing is a lot of times there's like something that breaks these things out. It's just that like if the setup is really good sometimes like someone just needs to like sneeze and like I mean Samsung raising prices is like actually pretty significant. I I just can't believe that didn't make like the front page of the New York Times. But, you know, it's not it's not always that easy. >> That's why we got Claude doing the work now. >> Yeah. Exactly. Uh but like it reminds me of like I think a good example of this is Tesla last year when it had that beautiful weekly squeeze like broke above what was it 360 or something? >> Um are you talking about that like September breakout? Yeah, like we we took it and it it exploded hard for for two days and and then kind of >> trended a little bit and then topped out. Um really explosive move. >> Musk went on a podcast like the night before it broke out and talked about a bunch of stuff. >> I remember that. >> I mean like and we were joking that like we were kind of like all right well I guess it still had a catalyst. But it's not like if he went on a podcast and Tesla was just mid-range, like you would just buy it the next day because he went on a podcast. But sometimes something like that is enough to get an A+ chart pattern to fire. Um, just because it's got a lot of other things going for it. So yeah, adds conviction. >> A huge debate. Is a podcast a catalyst? >> It's not a high graded catalyst, but it is something. >> Yeah. So, I mean, I would say with the catalyst, it's like grade them well, understand when it's an A+ catalyst that can stand on its own, and understand when it's like a C minus catalyst, that might just be enough to get a stock that's going to go higher anyway to do it today, right? >> Yeah, 100%. And the you mentioned the upgrades. Like that's an interesting one because you're never just buying for the most part. You're not just buying an upgrade or shorting a downgrade mid-range, but a lot of times if something's close to breaking out, you see like, oh, like Bank of America or BAML upgrade to them and then boom. >> Yeah. It's like a domino effect, right? Because then they have to kind of buy it or recommend it to their clients and they put something out, people get interested. Maybe a few people buy it. It pushes it above the level. everyone else. All the breakout traders now are getting in and it's like it's like a a vicious cycle. >> Have you heard this study of tens of millions of traders which shows that only 1% of retail traders actually make it? Don't be a statistic. Visit smbtradingfloor.com to greatly increase your odds. >> Number 11, narrative. And so I put I put this after catalyst because remember this is all context and this is the last one in the context category. >> Um I put this down because I think it's really key and it's different than than catalyst. What do you think? I would go mustave on this one. I'm thinking about our breakout trading and in general like it's not always theme trading. Um, but this is a lot of theme trading is you want to know like the story of the stock and you want to be in stocks that have good stories and they have reasons to go higher or reasons that the street might be underpricing them right now and they're going to get rerated in like I'm thinking almost all of my best trading it's in stocks that have strong narratives like growth. You can say growth is a narrative where it's like high EPS growth, revenue growth >> and it's exciting stories like almost always >> in the themes that we talk about like sometimes these these hot themes start to take off and it's part of that, right? Um like the space theme and then all those names are strong and one sets up for like a beautiful breakout but because it's >> in that theme that's that's got hype and and got that got that uh got that zeitgeist going, right? It's got the um what do we call it? The animal spirits. Um >> yeah, like the analogy that's coming to mind is like whenever America got really down on like cigarettes and you let's imagine you had like the best breakout in Altria, which I think's MO. It's like I don't know if the narrative is good to be swigging that for a year. >> All right. So, I mean that but that's a good point. So I want to say to that point that a narrative can also be somewhat of a combination of these other checks in favor that create a narrative in your head for why because again under this context category we're trying to answer the question does this have a reason to go. So, the quantum names to me like that had a narrative because the narrative is that they suck and that they shouldn't they should not be at these prices yet they're miraculously holding up and they look like they're going to break out and then I think IQ got one of those >> kind of mediocre catalysts and they all went on huge volume and so you're just the narrative is short squeeze the narrative is uh not supposed to be doing this right it's Not some So we don't have to be like >> it's not always fundamental. You're getting >> Yeah. Like we don't have to be um always like analysts like we're not trying to like figure out valuations and like where they should be. We're just trying to figure out >> what's the driver. >> So like when you're when you're analyzing these earnings reports, you're just trying to think like, okay, what's the driver here? Like what's what are market participants going to do with their money? And so a massive short squeeze is actually a really good reason for what the market participants might do with their money. >> I love the this shouldn't be happening narrative. It's like think back to GME, but I coined that like this shouldn't be happening. I'm trying to think of what right now is this shouldn't be happening, but I'm drawing a blank. I don't know if we have anything. >> There's a lot that shouldn't be happening probably. >> Yeah, I mean like all of the these commodity boos. Um, all right. So, that that wraps up context. And so, now this is so interesting. We don't have Oh, wait. No, we got one must have the narrative. All right. So, in context, that's our mustave. That's cool. I I agree with that now that I'm looking at. All right. So, timing. So, now this is And there's four of these on my list. This is trying to answer the question, is this happening now? >> Yeah. >> Right. So now like we've got all of these other things setting up the trade and now giving us like a big reason to get behind the potential of this move. So now we actually have to trade it. So like how do we know it's breaking out? And these are the four things that um checks in favor that can can really help us. Now this isn't necessarily like I'm not talking about um an entry pattern. I'm not talking about execution here. I'm still talking about checks in favor, things that make the trade A+, right? Or or lack thereof create a weakness in the setup. So number 12, a volume moment. So what I mean by volume moment, because I could say like elevated volume or I could say like big arval, but a lot of times when we say big arval, we just mean like for the day. So by the time that candle close, that daily candle closes, does it print like higher than average volume? And a lot of times on a day one, that's what's going to happen. Especially on some of these big really, really good breakouts like we want to see like 5x average volume or we want to see over two standard deviations. But first of all, we don't know until the market closes what that volume's going to print on that daily chart. So we have to have an way of knowing is it on pace for that. And then also we have these kind of exceptions to this rule where we get a big blast of elevated volume in the morning as it breaks out and then maybe volume kind of dries up as it as the stock goes sideways and digests um for the and holds up above the breakout level for the rest of the day and then carries on you know after that. So it there there surely was a volume moment through the level. So I the more I study these the more I realize that volume will the fingerprints of volume will show up in various ways and it's not always the same. And so if it's not printing like two three times its average daily volume on that day. you might have to like think about it in a little bit more nuanced way and see that there actually was like a really huge pickup in volume when it blew through the level and it's holding above where that volume came in. And so volume moment means like any of these types of things, but are we seeing something in the volume as it's breaking out that is an outlier volume moment? You explained that really good because it does show up in various ways and I would say just the check in favor that it does show up and you get a volume moment is a mustave. >> Yeah. >> Like that is critical to any breakout trade or any day one where you think this could be day one of a huge base breakout. It's like you need to see it >> at some point in the day. I can't argue with you because I mean, think about it like like if your if your stock's just hanging around and it it starts printing above the level and there's like no increase in volume and it's just kind of l it's like acting like it's basically telling you like your your pink line is is I don't even know what your pink line is all about. >> That's exactly what it's telling you. It's like why' you even draw it? >> Yeah. Yeah. Why' you even draw this? Right. It's not significant. Um volume is telling us about participation. Volume is fuel meaning like the more volume that comes in the more volatility that can come in which is what we want of level. Um, it's just the fingerprints of market participants and the institutions and the the options market and all that stuff that we want when we have a breakout on our hands >> because yeah, we have everything all the checks in favor we already mentioned and like what this volume is is a confirmation where it's like you're not crazy at all. Like you have all these checks in favor and then it's confirming in real time. >> Yeah. All right. So number 13, clean tape. Do >> you want me to define that or do you know what I mean? >> Uh, I kind of know what you mean, but define it a little. Make sure I'm on the same page. >> Because because we I mean we'll say like the tape is clean and what we mean by that is just um we're getting clean price action like intraday. Like it's a it's respecting levels like the pullbacks are holding logical levels. it might be consolidating in an orderly manner and then when it breaks out it goes with conviction and doesn't back test too much. It's not wiky and if you're watching the tape, you can see the offers lift and the bids step up and it's just it's easy. A clean tape is easier to read. And and one of the things that comes to mind um for me is that Fastly trade that we took that we talked about on one of these episodes recently where this was an earnings play and I didn't know how Fastly would trade when we took it. No idea. I mean, we haven't traded that in like years. >> And especially on some of these earnings day ones, like the tape >> will could be kind of messy and, you know, it's kind of crowded and and you just never know. When that thing opened, it exploded through that pre-market high, held higher and the spread was like a penny and you could just see the order flow. The order flow just kept coming and kept coming. It was like one of the most liquid days I've ever seen in a name. And that tends to be a really really good sign for momentum because you don't want to see crickets out there with like a wide spread and nobody hitting the bid in the offer and then it just having these like liquidity, you know, moments where it's just the spreads opening up and it's dropping and then like that's that doesn't lend itself not only does that not lend itself to good trading, but it it also kind of doesn't lend itself to really good momentum. It's just not% it's just not the nature of a name that is going to get good momentum. So, how important is this? So, younger Tim would have put it maybe in like an ads conviction, but right now, uh, I put it as a must-have because it really reminds me of like a stock could go higher in a very messy, choppy way where like, you know, super wiky, maybe it even like retests the open or low a day multiple times and like we have a term for it. We call it like mousing where it then goes and it's like if it goes higher, am I missing a great breakout trade in my playbook or a trade I could crush or am I just worried about missing that move? And it's like if it's not trading clean, I don't need to be involved. It's fine. I don't need it. >> Love that attitude. I actually think having this as a mustave is like a great um personal defense mechanism against trading garbage. Um, I I have a tough time putting it as must-have because I know that like trying to think of examples, but it might not need to be a clean trader to to truly break out and fall. Now, the question is like do you want to be a part of that >> FCG if it's like really higher time frame, you know? >> Right. And it and and it's fine to not it's fine to be okay with not being a part of that. So, like I think like this is one of those ones where it's like for you >> if you want to make that a mustave, I think that's completely acceptable. It's like a personal preference. Maybe you only want to trade stocks like that. Maybe you're better at being a little bit more zoomed out and you're not bothered by messy price action because you're you're you're just good at sort of maybe you're just buying call spreads and and just risking to zero, right? Um, >> so but I I do think that is it clean price action is the hallmark of a momentum stock typically and people might have like various tastes in terms of what they like to see. But um I I'm on the fence, man. I I I have a tough time making it a mustave, but I don't blame I don't blame you. No, I don't I don't blame you. Like what can you think of a stock that broke out with conviction that that did not have a clean tape >> this year? Like again it's like ones where I wasn't always even involved in them. Like I'm trying to see like some of these fiber optics like were pretty tough like intraday like there's a way to play them like LIT great move like you know would I have wanted to be involved in this move like yeah but like I mean it ended up like holding the 10 EMA like so well and like you know went from I'm looking at the chart like 406 to 750. Um, and it really was that earnings report that um, like kind of was the catalyst in the driver. >> Um, but if you look at like day one, I'm looking at 130. Like it basically got above your breakout level, completely failed, retraced, closed red on the day, next day gaps up again, fails like at that same day one level, closes kind of weak, but closes above the level. A couple like grind up days. Um, and then it gets bought from the 10 EMA and that it kind of starts it. But at the same point, like I'm asking myself like on any of those days where it wasn't trading clean, like would I have been able to crush it or like would I even be in the trade if I was trying on those messy, clean, unclean days? And I think the answer is probably no. >> Probably would have got chopped up. And >> all right, we're >> so that that's a decent example. I think I mean >> that's good. We're going to It's like >> you lose so many times like trading something like IQ with a tight stop like versus a two-minute bar low and you're like, "Yep, this isn't this just doesn't trade clean on a a bunch of days." And when it does trade clean, it's super in play. You'll see it on the volume and the tape will be different. >> And all of these things play into each other because like when it's like when you have that volume moment, it tends to trade clean. when you've got um some of these other factors lining up together, it it tends to trigger, too. So, um all right, we're gonna we'll make that a must have. >> Yep. >> We're doing it. All right. So, number 14, hidden relative strength. >> We had an we had an episode about this and we call it hidden relative strength. This this is basically seeing the relative strength of the stock without it having to rally. meaning every time this the market ticks down and of course this works better with with market dependent stocks but every or or you should just be watching the sympathies you could be watching like the group or whatever but whenever every time the market ticks down if if your stock holds it's showing hidden relative strength or if the market's going sideways and yours like ticks up a little it doesn't mean like oh man our our stock's up 10% that's not hidden that's just relative strength Um, but it's a way like we often see this right like before right before the stock breaks out. So, this is another like timing thing where it's like the day before maybe even the morning. Um, you you start to see that thing like hold and hold on on down ticks in the market and you're like, hm, okay, this this this only has one one direction to go in right now. >> Yeah, this is good. Like a fun project for us that I'm super curious about is going back through all of our breakout trades and seeing if there was ever a time that one was relatively weak before the breakout. >> I cannot think of >> like I can't think of one and I would be shocked if there was even more than I could count on my hands. Yeah, >> probably not. So, I would say uh mustave for this like with our breakout trading too, like we're usually dealing with trying to be in the leading themes, leading stocks within those themes. >> Yeah. >> And what that alludes to is these are relatively strong themes and relatively strong stocks. And honestly, like the best thing to do is when you get a little pullback, like you're talking about what's showing hidden relative strength and then you have that watch list and then you wait for a breakout setup to develop based on all the checks and favor we put in the musthaves with setup. >> Yeah. >> So yeah, I would say this is really big and emphasis on the hidden. >> Yeah, I agree because it's it's to flip that upside down. It's like it's one of the worst things to say to notice like oh man like the market's rallying but like you're the stock you're watching is not participating. >> Yeah, >> that's like >> it's great info. >> Hidden relative weakness or whatever. And that that's um that's a red that's a real red flag usually. Um you know it might just underperform. Maybe it does go higher, but it's not going to be the it's not going to be the allstar that that you were looking for. Um, all right. Number 15, final one. >> Within striking distance. >> Do you know what I mean? Okay. >> I have an idea. I get the vibe. >> Yeah, it was it was hard to come up with like a like a name for this one, but here we go. It means that it closed the night before or and or is opening very close to the break to the pink line to the breakout level. In other words, it's not opening an ATR below the level and has to run an ATR in the morning to get to the level to paid through that level, right? Like a lot of Yeah, >> I'm not going to say anymore. >> What do you think? >> I love it. Uh, my gut's telling me that's a mustave. Like, but there are So, guts telling me must have, there are certain scenarios where I could like kind of explain how you would trade differently and you still might be partaking in building a breakout position day one. But like if we're talking breakout trading and it's running an ATR in the level like my fingers aren't on the keys ready to hit the offer like very much I'm like >> all right I don't think it's going to be ready today because if it even does get to the pink line look at the energy it's spent to get there. You're looking at the V cycle, the squeezes, you're looking at literally the ATR move, and it's like, what's the probability that this could make a measured move of that move it made to just get to the breakout level? >> Yeah. And I and I think that this is like this is a very specific situation because we're t we're really talking about like if the breakout happens on an opening drive, it it it just it just becomes a different trade. Like >> that's what I was kind of thinking >> and that's what you made me think of >> with your with your description because if it opens an ATR away and runs into the level like now you've got the liberty to kind of wait and see if it can hold above or maybe it closes above but it's not going to like get away. And I think that the um I think that the the big thing that we're trying to guard ourselves against with this particular point is when it's opening kind of just too far from the level like maybe it's half an ATR and it goes right off the open sprays up like half an ATR in like two minutes and and just prints at that pink line and and That move can just get you so excited because it looks >> happening right now. >> It looks like a like a just shot out of a cannon. But that type of price action most often results in a stuff at the level where you're just you pay at the high and then you're caught holding the bag and then it completely fails back down. Might even >> do a review and you're like of course it failed there, >> right? So, it's like very tough to pay up after that kind of move right off the open versus it's opening right at the level or better yet above like right above the level, maybe a tight pre-market range and then you're just paying through the pre-market high with a stop below like the pre-market low or something like that. But it's it's opening where it doesn't have to spend any energy to bust through the level. It's doing it early, right? Right. It might there might be a little dip first and then a rip or maybe it rips right off the open and goes through pre-market high. But either way, we're getting that explosion off the open and it's breaking out before our eyes like right away versus like an illquid spray like up to the level that just it's almost like a smoke and mirrors move. I would say that within striking distance is adds conviction. And the reason is because um >> or maybe even extra credit. It's just something you have to be aware of. >> It it's not a mustave because it's not the only way these break out. It's just that like >> when it is within striking distance you're you don't have to worry about a a host of of issues with that could potentially arise with the trade in terms of execution. >> You're right. I'm with you. Honestly, you convinced me because like I'm thinking too like you get a breakout close where like there's so many times we'll just be like, "All right, let's see where it closes." And then it closes like all-time high or you know above a huge base and you're like, "All right, yeah, this could be really good." You get in on the close. >> Totally. And that could be like, you know, it closes above and that's great. And I mean, you maybe you could qualify that as within striking distance because it's the close, but but you know what I mean. So, let's do I mean what do you what do you think? Ads conviction. >> Edge conviction. >> Okay, we're going to do ads conviction. And I would just say you just put an asterric with that basically to say that like it's just something to be super aware of when we're trading these. >> Um, all right. So, that's that's all. >> We should do more lists. This was fun. >> That's all 15. So, let me just talk let me just do the musthaves. All right. So, we have A+ pink line, right? Okay, so that's just a beautiful breakout level, higher time frame squeeze. So compression on the higher time frame, long consolidation weeks or months, blue sky, meaning either 52- week highs, all-time highs, or at least like no resistance, right? We want it to explode into space. Then we've got the narrative. It's got to have some kind of narrative behind it. Could be short interest, could be could be a theme, could be fun growth, something, right? Could be the the Iran stuff that's going on right now. Um, all right. What else? We got volume moment, clean tape, and hidden relative strength. So that's one, two, three, four, five, six, seven. Seven. >> Seven checks in favor for breakout trades. >> That's pretty solid. And these I mean those are our seven. >> That's it. We got We got And there's 15 to to think about, too. So, um All right, man. Well, I think we did our job. We can now put this up on a poster or something like that. >> There we go. T-shirts. >> Yeah. All right. Well, we're on Spotify now. For those watching on YouTube, please check us out on Spotify. Check out Inside Access where you get to join me on Tuesdays and Bionic Trader meetings. We have a lot of fun sharing some of these indicators that we talk about and going over how we leverage those. Tim, until next time. I'll probably see you tomorrow, but uh but I'll also see you in a week here and we'll do another one. >> Oh, yeah. More. I like this list. You bring in the list. So, I think we could we could maybe find another one. This was a fun >> combo. I agree. All right. Signing off. Thanks, everyone.
